- Author:: [[facebook.com]]
- URL:: https://www.facebook.com/Advaitaholics-Anonymous-471671813352841
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Articles #Inbox #Readwise
- ### Highlights first synced by #Readwise [[November 11th, 2020]]
    - At any given time, the magnitude of what you don’t know will always eclipse the size of what you do.  You can only base your decisions on the limited factors that you are aware of, thereby having no choice but to exclude the thousands of factors of influence that aren’t even on your radar. No matter how knowledgeable or well-informed you may be, all such knowledge is only relative to the knowledge other people possess. But this relative difference is negligible when compared to the vastness of what remains unknown. Like comparing the size of your SUV to someone’s compact. The size difference between the vehicles becomes negligible when compared to the size of the sun. That’s why the choices we humans make are ultimately poor choices by default. They are poorly informed. There is no way of escaping this fact no matter how knowledgeable we think we are. I say this not to paint a bleak picture, but as a pointer to withhold judgment when considering the choices of others. They may appear to be making poor choices in life in comparison to your own. But in the big picture we are all blind men and women groping in the dark.  Each person makes the best choice that they are capable of making given the factors THEY are aware of. Plain and simple. There are no RIGHT choices here. We can’t even begin to comprehend what ‘right’ is. Humanity is just a spectrum of different shades of ignorance. Acknowledging one’s own stupidity is a great practice in humility. Grasping the true magnitude of one’s own ignorance is a mark of wisdom. 
- ### New highlights added [[November 24th, 2020]] at 12:20 PM
    - The profound realization that Gautama Buddha had under the Bodhi tree is of as much importance and relevance to your experience of living as what Kanye West and Kim Kardashian ate for breakfast this morning. The most ancient spiritual scriptures in the world are as vacuous as celebrity Instagram accounts. They hold nothing more than entertainment value. Fetishizing the words and experiences of others makes them appear larger-than-life and turns them into living gods and prophets.  But in reality there are no gods and prophets. Only ordinary men and women. It’s those of us who find it unbearable to live in a world devoid of authority figures, that give them their identities. The moment you adopt an ideology of any kind you have essentially relinquished your own inborn privilege of forging a unique relationship with reality for yourself. A life lived on someone else’s terms - no matter who that someone is, no matter how progressive or profound their words may be, no matter how revered they are by the rest of the world - is what I would call an UTTERLY WASTED opportunity. 
