- Author:: [[Jefferson Chase]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Inbox #Readwise
- ### Highlights first synced by #Readwise [[March 1st, 2021]]
    - # 18: Hitler’s Place in History
        - National Socialism disappeared like a ghost, almost overnight. Loyal supporters of the regime swiftly transformed into equally committed opponents of the same. The Berlin diarist Martha Hillers, whose anonymously published diaries created a stir in the 1950s for their descriptions of mass rapes of German women by Soviet soldiers, summarised what people were saying to one another while queuing outside shops in mid-May 1945: “Everyone is trying to get away from Adolf now, and no one was ever part of it. Everyone was persecuted, and no one denounced anyone else.”15 Victor Klemperer, who had escaped the February inferno in Dresden with his wife by fleeing to Bavaria, noted: “Now everyone here was always an enemy of the party. If only they really had always been that…The Third Reich has been practically forgotten.”16 Twelve years previously, the opposite had been the case, as Friedrich Kellner recalled all too well. When Hitler had come to power in early 1933, he wrote, many Germans had tried to prove “with the most threadbare arguments” that they had “always been National Socialists.”17
Journalists from Allied countries who reported on the destroyed Germany in the spring and summer of 1945[…]
        - After 1945, the myth of the Führer as saviour flipped into its absolute negative. Hitler was declared a monster, a demon in human guise whose infernal powers of seduction the German people had been helpless to resist.23 It was a convenient way of evading accountability or having to take stock of one’s own complicity in National Socialism. Even the defendants at the main war crimes trial in Nuremberg in 1945 and 1946, without exception, denied any involvement or even knowledge of the Nazi regime’s crimes against humanity and tried to pass themselves off as innocent.24
        - Germans’ general aversion to confronting their own history undermined all of the Allies’ well-intentioned re-education programmes. The de-Nazification initiative devolved into a large-scale process of rehabilitation, in which even former regime functionaries accused of committing grave crimes got off with light sentences or no punishment at all.25 The academic elites, who as a group had disproportionately served the Nazi regime, clamoured for the de-Nazification certificates that became known as “Persil tickets” after the brand of laundry detergent. “Almost every day I see the same thing: people coming to be rehabilitated,” Klemperer wrote in a letter from Dresden in June 1946. “And all of them swear that they themselves knew nothing, nothing whatsoever, about all the horrors…all of them, literally all of them, have Jewish friends, if not a Jewish grandmother they risked their lives to help. It is such a pathetic bit of theatre, a miserable farce.”
        - But while Hitler’s entry onto the political stage following the First World War was inauspicious, within four years, he succeeded in becoming the undisputed leader of the nationalist, ethnically chauvinist right wing in Bavaria—someone who dared grasp for power in November 1923 at the side of former general Erich Ludendorff, Germany’s de facto dictator in the final years of the First World War. This phenomenal rise would have been impossible had Hitler not possessed some extraordinary talents other populist agitators in the early 1920s lacked. First and foremost, there was his speaking ability. Hitler’s discovery of his power as an orator in the autumn of 1919 can be considered his central “breakthrough” as a politician.32 He was incomparably skilled at pulling the strings of his listeners’ emotions and successful at playing on not only their fears and resentments, but also their hopes and desires. For the historian Ludolf Herbst he was a “virtuoso at reeling people in.”33
Hitler hit a nerve not only with what he said, but how he said it. The agitated state into which he regularly worked himself seemed genuine and authentic, and his audience overlooked his tendency to play loose with the[…]
        - Hitler combined his speaking talent with a sophisticated sense of effective staging, for magical settings and light effects. The historian Wolfram Pyta has convincingly shown how well Hitler was served by his detailed knowledge of the overwhelming spectacle of Wagner’s musical dramas from his time in Vienna.35 It helped that Hitler himself was gifted with considerable talent as an actor. Early on, he trained himself to switch from one role to another and adapt flexibly to differing environments.36 This made him better able to cope with the demands of the media than his political competitors. He was a modern type of politician who had mastered different roles and could coolly calculate how to use them towards his ends. Thus he was able to entrance not just his supporters but his detractors too. The more intoxicating the enthusiasm he unleashed in the major public halls of Munich, the greater became his confidence and sense of being chosen for a special historic mission.
        - Hitler, however, was not only a persuasive mass orator and a chameleon-like actor. He also possessed an often underappreciated talent for organisation. There can be no doubt that without him the NSDAP would have remained one of many small sects in the racist subculture of Germany after the First World War. After its reconstitution in 1925, the party was very much his work and oriented itself around him as its sacrosanct Führer. He alone possessed the authority to hold together the heterogeneous ideological elements within National Socialism and form the NSDAP and its ancillary organisations into a cohesive movement.
        - It was also Hitler who ultimately determined the tempo and direction of the regime’s anti-Semitic policies—from the first anti-Jewish measures in the spring of 1933 to the final homicidal quantum leap of the systematic destruction of Europe’s Jews that commenced in 1941. Without Hitler, this much is certain, there would have been no Holocaust. His fanatical anti-Semitism was the engine driving genocide. While it may have been difficult to tell sometimes when Hitler was play-acting, the Führer was always deadly serious when he vented his maniacal hatred of Jews.
        - All the way back in his first written ideological statement as a Munich rabble-rouser in September 1919, Hitler had insisted on “the complete removal of the Jews” as essential, and he never gave up this goal as long as he lived. In 1939 “removal” still meant social exclusion and displacement, not physical annihilation. Only after Germany’s occupation of Poland and its invasion of the Soviet Union did genocide become an option. The search for a written command by Hitler ordering the Holocaust is a pointless exercise. As we have seen, it was his style of leadership to express decisions of fundamental scope in terms of general wishes, which were then to be translated into concrete instructions by the executors of his policies. We should not forget that this abominable crime against humanity could not have been carried out without the participation of hundreds of thousands of ready helpers.
        - That fact underlines an important point. The “Hitler phenomenon” is not merely the sum of his thoughts and deeds: it can only be understood by simultaneously examining the social pathology of German society at the time. Only the reciprocal influence between individual and collective sensitivities and neuroses can explain Hitler’s otherwise baffling rise and his undeniably massive appeal. That is already true for the beginning of his political career. In his prophetic book Germany: Jekyll & Hyde, Sebastian Haffner wrote in 1940 that it was a tragic coincidence that Hitler’s “personal plight coincided so much with the German plight in 1919.”43 Indeed, the frustration of the young failed individual dovetailed with the traumas of the wartime and post-war generations, and when they came together they released tremendous destructive energy, without which it is impossible to understand the later crimes of National Socialism.
        - one of the preconditions for the rise of a charismatic politician is an existential crisis that disrupts conventional thinking. The onset of the Great Depression in 1929 and 1930 created precisely such a situation. The depression hit Germany particularly hard, and the consequences were more severe because it coincided with the political crisis of the Weimar Republic and the collapse of democratic institutions. Hitler was the main beneficiary of this dual economic and political emergency. Conversely, he was better able than any of his contemporaries to portray himself as a messiah and mobilise the German public’s manifold hopes for salvation. He was capable of tapping into mass psychological and psychosocial dispositions and needs like the desire for a strong leader—a “second Bismarck” who promised to overcome the crisis and lead Germany to new greatness—that were deeply anchored in post-war German political culture. At the same time, however, he exploited the longing for a synthesis of nationalism and socialism, expressed in the attractive slogan of an “ethnic-popular community” that promised to put an end to the class conflicts and party squabbling of the Weimar Republic.46
        - Germany could not have been so quickly and easily Nazified had there not been widespread willingness to be brought into line among almost all German institutions. Moreover, the cultish worship of Hitler, already extreme in 1933, was not solely the work of the master propagandist Joseph Goebbels, who ensured that the Führer was continually featured in the state-directed media. On the contrary, Hitler voters and followers themselves contributed to the pseudo-religious elevation of the dictator by projecting all their expectations and desires onto him
        - In many areas, Hitler was able to adopt what others had thought and done during Germany’s imperial era, but he always radicalised what he inherited and took it to extremes. Good examples are the German aspirations for hegemony in continental Europe that had led the Imperial German government to risk world war in 1914 or the anti-democratic, anti-Western resentment that engendered among many German elites a hateful enmity to the Weimar Republic as a form of state allegedly foreign to the German nature and imposed by the victors of the First World War. Most prominently, such influences applied to the two core elements of Hitler’s world view: his anti-Semitism and his demand for German “living space” in eastern Europe.
        - The anti-Semitic hothouse of the reactionary counter-revolution in Munich was where Hitler began his political career in 1919, and like a sponge he soaked up the anti-Jewish sentiments circulating there. He also availed himself of the arsenal of clichés and stereotypes provided by jingoistic and racist authors like Ernst Moritz Arndt and Julius Langbehn from the early nineteenth century onwards. What distinguished Hitler from his predecessors and contemporaries was less the radicalism with which he insisted on his stated goal of “removing” Jews from Germany than his iron will to make this goal a reality once he had obtained power. After 1933, one by one, the constraints that had protected German Jews from social marginalisation and persecution disappeared. Hitler was serious about doing what others had mentally thought out—right down to the ultimate homicidal stage of physically destroying European Jews.
        - The historian Fritz Fischer’s words marking the centenary of Hitler’s birth on 20 April 1989 remain true today: “Hitler came from neither heaven nor hell and was not an ‘avoidable accident.’ In terms of the conditions that enabled him to have the effect he had, he should be seen as deeply connected to nineteenth- and twentieth-century German history.”78 On the other hand, Hitler went far beyond the cultural universe from where he came. The genocidal ideological fanaticism that drove him and the monstrous crimes that resulted were without precedent. Hitler’s dictatorship thus represented both a continuity in German history and a fundamental caesura.
        - Some not insignificant reasons for Hitler’s successes resided in his own personality. The dictator had a keen nose for his enemies’ weak spots and had no scruples about exploiting them. He also had a deft sense of the right moment, which he seized in lightning-like strikes. In the process he showed an enormous willingness to take risks, such as ordering German troops to march into the demilitarised Rhineland in March 1936. His proclivity for going for broke was an integral feature of his political career from its very inception, and he would not change even after a series of impressive triumphs gave him something to lose
        - The concept of a peaceful European order also contradicted Hitler’s unwritten law of keeping things in flux and avoiding fixed commitments. Just as he refused domestically to write a new German constitution or clearly define areas of responsibility, there could be no stop to Germany’s external expansion. The Greater German Reich he had created by 1938 was nothing more than a springboard for a still larger “Greater Germanic Reich,” which was in turn just a preliminary step towards world domination
        - In the very moment when he overplayed his hand and lost the game, his instinctive sense for his enemies’ weak spots also disappeared. Whereas earlier, despite his intense fixation on his ultimate goals, he had always shown a remarkable tactical flexibility, his war strategy now ossified into an unimaginative holding of territory at all costs, which drew criticism from his military commanders.
        - Hitler will remain a cautionary example for all time. If his life and career teaches us anything, it is how quickly democracy can be prised from its hinges when political institutions fail and civilising forces in society are too weak to combat the lure of authoritarianism; how thin the mantle separating civilisation and barbarism actually is; and what human beings are capable of when the rule of law and ethical norms are suspended and some people are granted unlimited power over the lives of others.
