- Author:: [[Steven Hassan]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Inbox #Readwise
- ### Highlights first synced by #Readwise [[February 25th, 2021]]
    - # Introduction
        - One of the most effective and insidious of Moon’s techniques, and of many cult leaders, is the way he manipulated his followers’ emotions. He would begin by making them feel special, part of an “inside” group in opposition to unenlightened, unbelieving dangerous “outsiders.” Playing on ancient human tribal tendencies, cult leaders encourage a kind of dualistic “us versus them” mindset. Trump uses this trope constantly, and to great effect. During his campaign rallies, he would single out members of the audience whom he perceived as hostile and eject them, often to deafening cheers from his supporters. He was demonstrating who counts as “us,” and what needs to be done about “them.”
        - One of Trump’s earliest campaign moves was to establish the image of a great shining Wall in the minds of his followers. The Wall was a key piece of Trump propaganda to insulate, isolate, and elevate America from the rest of the dangerous world.
        - Trump uses all kinds of cult tactics—lying, insulting opponents, projecting his weaknesses onto others, deflecting, distracting, presenting alternative facts and competing versions of reality—to confuse, disorient, and ultimately coerce his followers. Repetition programs the beliefs into the unconscious. But fearmongering tops the list. In my experience, phobia indoctrination—the creation of fearful thoughts to promote and reinforce a desired set of beliefs or behaviors in followers—is one of the most powerful and universal techniques in the cult leader’s arsenal. This is why Trump spends so much air and Twitter time painting a frightening picture of the danger posed by immigrants—Mexicans, Muslims, the migrant caravan. The more vivid the thought or image installed in people’s minds, the greater a hold it has, and the less susceptible it is to rational or critical thought.
        - There are other enemies in Trump’s world—globalists, radical left-wing Democrats, socialists, Hollywood actors, the liberal media—all of whom want to destroy America. Inspiring fear of real or imagined threats overrides people’s sense of agency. It makes them susceptible to a confident authority figure who promises to keep them safe, and can make them more compliant and obedient.
        - Trump, like cult leaders and dictators throughout history, seizes upon people’s needs and fears and amplifies them. Like these authoritarian leaders, he may manufacture problems that do not exist, and then say “trust me” or “believe me” and promise that only he can fix it.
        - Given the right circumstances, sane, rational, well-adjusted people can be made to consider and ultimately believe the most outrageous leaders and propositions. There is a method to the madness. Cult leaders may look and behave differently, but even the craziest, most chaotic ones follow a similar pattern. While they usually have no academic training, they are masters of human psychology, especially social psychology. They understand that human beings are social creatures who, at some level, are wired to follow leaders and powerful members of their group.
        - People like to think they are rational and in control, but the lessons of history and social psychology demonstrate, time and again, that simply isn’t so. We go about our days, and our lives, using unconscious mental models. When cult leaders manipulate those models, in subtle and overt ways, we can be persuaded to believe and do things we might never have considered without such systematic psychological influence.
        - Through the media and the internet, people can be indoctrinated—and even recruited—on their smartphones or in their own homes. Some cult leaders, including pimps and human traffickers, use smartphones and digital technology to monitor and control their followers.
        - Questioning government, politicians, and the media are all signs of a healthy democracy, one that values free and critical thinking. Trump’s exhortations do the opposite. By promoting the idea of “fake news” and calling journalists who disagree with him “enemies of the people,” he is closing his followers’ minds to disconfirming evidence and arguments. He sounds to me like notorious cult leader Jim Jones, who, as he was taking his last breaths, told his followers at Jonestown that it was all “the media’s fault—don’t believe them.”
        - most cults do tend to revolve around a central figure—the leader. Cult leaders often appear to be devoted to, and even embody, the religion or ideology practiced by their group. In my experience, cult leaders are often motivated by three things: power, money, and sex—in that order.
        - Lifton identified eight criteria of what he called “thought reform,” popularly known as “brainwashing”
        - 1. Milieu control. The leader, or inner circle, has complete control of information—how and where it is communicated, disseminated, and consumed, resulting in nearly complete isolation from the outside world. People learn to trust only the publications and news that come from the group itself. (The rest is “fake,” in Trump parlance.) Eventually, people internalize the group mindset, becoming their own “mental police.”
2. Mystical manipulation. Group and individual experiences are contrived, engineered, and even staged in a way that makes them seem spontaneous and even supernatural or divine. A leader may be told something about a new member and then present that knowledge to the new recruit as if they had somehow divined it. Witnessing such things, the member believes that there are mystical forces at work.
3. Demand for purity. Viewing the world in simple binary terms, as “black versus white,” “good versus evil,” members are told that they must strive for perfection—no messy gray zones. They are set impossible standards of performance, resulting in feelings of guilt and shame. No matter how hard a person tries, they always fall short, feel bad, and work even harder. (Out of twenty-four cabinet posts, at least[…]
        - 4. Confession. Personal boundaries are broken down and destroyed. Every thought, feeling, or action—past or present—that does not conform to the group’s rules should be shared or confessed, either publicly or to a personal monitor. Nor is the information forgiven or forgotten. Rather, it can be used by the leader or group to control members whenever the person needs to be put in line. (Trump appears to have an elephant’s memory for perceived betrayals.)
5. Sacred science. Group ideology or doctrine is considered to be absolutely, scientifically, and morally true—no room for questions or alternative viewpoints. The leader, often seen as a spokesperson for God, is above any criticism. (Trump, who denies the scientific evidence of climate change and regularly ignores and even denigrates science, could be said to put his own spin on this, promoting a kind of “sacred anti-science.”)
        - 6. Loading the language. Members learn a new vocabulary that is designed to constrict their thinking into absolute, black-and-white, thought-stopping clichés that conform to group ideology. (“Lock her up” and “Build the Wall” are Trumpian examples. Even his put-downs and nicknames—Crooked Hillary, Pocahontas for Elizabeth Warren—function to block other thoughts. Terms like “deep state” and “globalist” also act as triggers. They rouse emotion and direct attention.)
7. Doctrine over person. Group ideology is privileged far above a member’s experience, conscience, and integrity. If a member doubts or has critical thoughts about those beliefs, it is due to their own shortcomings.
8. Dispensing of existence. Only those who belong to the group have the right to exist. All ex-members and critics or dissidents do not. This is perhaps the most defining and potentially the most dangerous of all of Lifton’s criteria. Taken to an extreme, which it has been by some cult groups, it can lead to murderous and even genocidal actions. Trump doesn’t go that far, but some have argued that his racist tweets—against Muslims, Mexicans, and immigrants—may have fueled hate crimes, such as the killing of Heather Heyer in[…]
    - # Chapter One: What Is a Cult?
        - six conditions for exerting undue influence on a person.
Keep them unaware of what is happening and how they are being changed one step at a time.
Control their social and/or physical environment, especially time.
Systematically create a sense of personal powerlessness.
Implement a system of rewards, punishments, and experiences that inhibits behavior that might reflect the person’s former social identity.
Implement a system of rewards, punishments, and experiences that promotes learning the group’s ideology or belief system and group-approved behaviors.
Put forth a closed system of logic and an authoritarian structure that permits no feedback and cannot be modified except by the leaders.
        - Most destructive cults exhibit a pyramid structure, with a leader, or some kind of authority figure (or figures), at the top who uses deceptive recruitment and an arsenal of mind control techniques to render people dependent and obedient. Those closest to the top, the inner sanctum or circle, are deepest in the group and often most indoctrinated. Those at the bottom may have never even met the leader and may be more or less actively involved with the group.
        - THE BITE MODEL
Cult members may bring other people through the door but what ensnares them is a complex array of influence techniques, applied incrementally to control almost every aspect of a person—the way they act (behavior), what they read, watch, or listen to (information), the way they think (thoughts), and how they feel (emotions). Trump has gotten millions of people to believe, support, and even adore him by using techniques in each of these areas:
Behavior: Trump demands loyalty and obedience, and often gets it, using a variety of tried-and-true cult tactics such as shunning and publicly insulting those who disagree with him. He creates false enemies—Mexicans, Muslims, the media, to name just a few—to engender us versus them thinking, which renders people more fearful and obedient. He rewards those who support him and punishes those who don’t. He holds mass rallies filled with people wearing Trump and Make America Great Again hats and T-shirts and chanting slogans, which promote identification with him and the group in opposition to outsiders, though this is a common feature of many political rallies.
Information: Cult leaders are masters of deception but they, like Trump, use[…]
        - Emotion: Cults have many techniques for controlling their members’ emotions, such as making them feel that they are special and chosen—true Americans, in Trump’s parlance. But the most effective is by fanning fear and implanting phobias. Trump’s Wall is most compelling because of what it will do—keep out murderers and rapists. Inspiring fear of real and imagined threats is what cult leaders do best. It was by exaggerating the threat of foreigners that he gained his foothold in the political landscape. Trump’s perverse genius, and he follows in the footsteps of cult leaders and dictators alike, is to convince his followers that the world is a dangerous place that only he can fix.
        - Ultimately the goal of the cult indoctrination process is to render a person dependent and obedient—to create a kind of “cult self” that suppresses the “authentic self” that a person is born with.
    - # Chapter Three: The Cult Leader Profile
        - People want to seek congruency—to see a reality that makes sense. When someone with presidential authority makes a false claim—and states it over and over—people can become disoriented, especially if they are predisposed to trust him and especially if they are a supporter.
The bigger the lie, the greater the disorientation. Ultimately a person can begin to question their own perception of reality, a phenomenon known as gaslighting. “The ultimate power of the gaslighter is to make it impossible for his targets to imagine a reality different from the one he imposes,” writes Paul Rosenberg.37 This power move got its name from the 1938 play Gaslight, later made into a movie, in which a husband conducts psychological warfare against his wife to the point that she begins to question her sanity. The goal is to undermine a person’s judgment and increase their reliance on the gaslighter.
        - “A lie once told remains a lie, but a lie told a thousand times becomes the truth,” the infamous Nazi propagandist Joseph Goebbels memorably claimed.
        - When lies are repeated, they have the effect of shutting down critical thinking—people turn a blind eye to the lie and to the truth. When once respected and trusted sources of news are called fake or the enemy of the people, people are put into a double bind
        - Trump’s lies appear to have pushed the same thought stopping buttons used by cult leaders—shutting down critical thinking; employing us versus them thinking; and using emotional manipulation to gain sympathy for the leader while at the same time drumming up animosity toward the media.
        - Malignant narcissists exploit people for personal benefit, often for financial gain.
        - For malignant narcissists, sadism manifests as a conscious ideology of aggressive self-affirmation, one that also serves as a kind of perverse defense mechanism. According to one study, “Individuals with malignant narcissism have a tendency to destroy, symbolically castrate, and dehumanize others. Their rage is fueled by the desire for revenge.”40 Narcissists are defined by their need for praise but their desire to not be insulted or criticized may be even greater. Such attacks on their sense of self are so threatening that they cannot be tolerated—malignant narcissists will lash out aggressively and sadistically at anyone and everyone who has wronged them.
        - Cult leaders use an arsenal of indoctrination techniques to ensure complete devotion and will reserve some of their harshest weapons—shunning, shaming, expulsion, and even physical punishment—for those who criticize or disobey them.
        - Many of history’s dictators were malignant narcissists.
        - The paranoid tendencies in malignant narcissists reflect their projection of unresolved hatred onto others whom they persecute. They have a deep sense of mistrust and view others as enemies/fools or idols, either devaluing or idealizing them. They have disorganized superegos and consequently lack the capacity for remorse, sadness or self-exploration. They are preoccupied with conspiracy theories. Their pathological grandiosity is a defense against paranoid anxiety.”59 In short, paranoia is the driving force behind malignant narcissism, the fear that people are judging you, and working and conspiring against you.
        - One of the more tragic features of malignant narcissism is an inability to trust friends and subordinates. Their loyalty must be continually tested, often in abusive and humiliating ways.
        - The greatest danger… is that pathological narcissists can lose touch with reality in subtle ways that become extremely dangerous over time. When they can’t let go of their need to be admired or recognized, they have to bend or invent a reality in which they can remain special, despite all messages to the contrary. In point of fact, they become dangerously psychotic. It’s just not always obvious before it’s too late.
        - Narcissists project their fears and anxieties outward. By externalizing their fears—often onto people—they believe they can destroy those negative emotions. They gain a feeling of safety from identifying and attacking enemies. To narcissists, admitting vulnerability, especially personal vulnerability, is far more terrifying than any foe
    - # Chapter Four: America, a Country Wired for Manipulation
        - Cults proliferate when a society is undergoing rapid change and particularly when there is a breakdown in trust between people and major institutions. The Great Recession of 2008 created economic hardships so severe that many people have not fully recovered.
        - According to Nobel Prize–winning author psychologist Daniel Kahneman, when it comes to making choices, we have two systems in our brains. As he writes in his 2016 book, Thinking, Fast and Slow, the first system is fast and instinctive and the second system more deliberate. The fast system relies on unconscious heuristics, and makes decisions based on instinct and emotion—a kind of “sensing”—without consulting the more analytic, critical “slow” system. It’s the part of the mind that you use when you’re “thinking with your gut,” that looks to others in your environment when it gets confused, and that defers to authority figures. When a person is unsure, they do what the tribe is doing—they conform. We unconsciously look to someone who promises security and safety. In short, we are unconsciously wired to adapt, conform, and follow to promote our survival.
        - This psychological bias—known as the fundamental attribution error—is important to understand before we go any further in explaining the science of mind control. When we see a negative behavior in another person (for example, joining a cult), we might explain it as an expression of a personality defect in that person (they are weak, gullible, or need someone to control them). When we see such a behavior in ourselves, we tend to attribute it to an external situation or contextual factor (I was lied to or pressured). The fundamental attribution error refers to this tendency to interpret other people’s behavior as resulting largely from their disposition while disregarding environmental and social influences.
        - By understanding the fundamental attribution error we are encouraged not to blame other people but rather to learn about the influences that have led them to adopt their position and work to expand the sharing of information and perspectives.
        - Dissonance is psychological tension that arises when there is conflict between a person’s beliefs, feelings, and behavior. We think of ourselves as rational beings and believe that our behavior, thoughts, and emotions are congruent. We can tolerate only a certain amount of inconsistency and will quickly rationalize to minimize the discrepancy. This often happens without our conscious effort or awareness. What this means is that when we behave in ways we might deem stupid or immoral, we change our attitudes until the behavior seems sensible or justified. This has implications for our ability to accurately perceive the world. People who hold opposing views will interpret the same news reports or factual material differently—each sees and remembers what supports their views and glosses over information that would create dissonance.
        - Mind control may involve little or no overt physical coercion, though obviously there is psychological abuse. There may be physical and sexual abuse as well. On their own, hypnotic processes—especially when combined with group dynamics—can create a potent indoctrination effect. A person is deceived and manipulated, though not directly threatened, into making prescribed choices and may even appear to respond positively, at least in the beginning.
    - # Chapter Five: The Persuasiveness of Trump
        - guided meditation and visualization are not, strictly speaking, forms of meditation. Listening to someone prompt you through a series of thoughts, feelings, and experiences is closer to a hypnotic, trance-inducing process than it is to meditation. Guided visualizations can be healthy and therapeutic, depending on who is doing it and why. For example, if at the end of a yoga class, you are lying on your mat, and the instructor asks you to visualize walking on warm sand at a beach or to feel your body melting into the mat and you feel better, that is fine. If it is ethical and empowers people to think for themselves and be more functional, with an internal locus of control, I am all for it. Be careful! So much of what is being promoted on the Web as meditation is actually hypnosis.
