- Author:: [[Daniel Goleman & Richard J. Davidson]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: We attach a sense of “I” to a painful sensation so it becomes “my pain”]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Rather than being just a cacophony of sensations that change continuously from moment to moment. 
    - #[[E: The shift to insight meditation occurs in no longer identifying with our thoughts]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Ordinarily our thoughts compel us: our loathing or self-loathing generates one set of feelings and actions; our romantic fantasies quite another. But with strong mindfulness we can experience a deep sense in which self-loathing and romantic thoughts are the same: like all other thoughts, these are passing moments of mind. We don’t have to be chased through the day by our thoughts—they are a continuous series of short features, previews, and outtakes in a theater of the mind. #Quotes [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Psychology #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Once we glimpse our mind as a set of processes, rather than getting swept away by the seductions of our thoughts, we enter the path of insight]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - There we progress through shifting again and again our relationship to that inner show—each time yielding yet more insights into the nature of consciousness itself. 
    - #[[E: Just as mud settling in a pond lets us see into the water, so the subsiding of our stream of thought lets us observe our mental machinery with greater clarity]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Along the way, for instance, the meditator sees a bewilderingly rapid parade of moments of perception that race through the mind, ordinarily hidden from awareness somewhere behind a scrim. 
    - #[[E: Beyond transitory states like samadhi, there can be lasting changes in our very being]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - The Vissudhimagga holds this transformation to be the true fruit of reaching the highest levels of the path of insight. For example, as the text says, strong negative feelings like greed and selfishness, anger and ill will, fade away. In their place comes the predominance of positive qualities like equanimity, kindness, compassion, and joy. 
    - #[[E: All too often our mental states fluctuate in a range that highlights desires, self-centeredness, sluggishness, agitation, and the like]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - These are among the unhealthy states on this map of mind. Healthy states, in contrast, include even-mindedness, composure, ongoing mindfulness, and realistic confidence. Intriguingly, a subset of healthy states applies to both mind and body: buoyancy, flexibility, adaptability, and pliancy. The healthy states inhibit the unhealthy ones, and vice versa. The mark of progress along this path is whether our reactions in daily life signal a shift toward healthy states. The goal is to establish the healthy states as predominant, lasting traits. 
    - #[[E: While immersed in deep concentration, a meditator’s unhealthy states are suppressed—but can emerge as strong as ever when the concentrative state subsides]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - In contrast, according to this ancient Buddhist psychology, attaining deepening levels of insight practice leads to a radical transformation, ultimately freeing the meditator’s mind of the unhealthy mix. A highly advanced practitioner effortlessly stabilizes on the healthy side, embodying confidence, buoyancy, and the like. 
    - #[[E: Valuing just the heights misses the true point of practice: to transform ourselves in lasting ways]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Some people fixate on the remarkable states attained during a meditation session—particularly during long retreats—and give little notice to how, or even if, those states translate into a lasting change for the better in their qualities of being after they’ve gone home. 
    - #[[E: The more you practice how to generate a meditative state, the more that practice shows lasting influences beyond the session itself]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Meditation can include focusing on breathing; generating loving-kindness; and monitoring thoughts ]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - **Attentional **meditations focus on training aspects of attention, whether in concentration, as in zeroing in on the breath, a mindful observation of experience, a mantra, or meta-awareness, as in open presence. 
        - Constructive meditations cultivate virtuous qualities, like loving-kindness. 
        - Deconstructive meditations such as insight practice use self-observation to pierce the nature of experience. They include “nondual” approaches that shift into a mode where ordinary cognition no longer dominates. 
    - #[[E: There are three forms of empathy—cognitive empathy, emotional empathy, and empathic concern]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Often people empathize emotionally with someone’s suffering but then tune out to soothe their own uncomfortable feelings. But compassion meditation enhances empathic concern, activates circuits for good feelings and love, as well as circuits that register the suffering of others, and prepares a person to act when suffering is encountered. Compassion and loving-kindness increase amygdala activation to suffering while focused attention on something neutral like the breath lessens amygdala activity. Loving-kindness acts quickly, in as little as eight hours of practice; reductions in usually intractable unconscious bias emerge after just sixteen hours. And the longer people practice, the stronger these brain and behavioral tendencies toward compassion become. The strength of these effects from the early days of meditation may signal our biological preparedness for goodness. 
    - #[[E: “The faculty of bringing back a wandering attention over and over again is the very root of judgment, character and will”]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        -  #Quotes : William James
    - #[[E: There are a number of different facets of attention]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Selective attention, the capacity to focus on one element and ignore others. 
        - Vigilance, maintaining a constant level of attention as time goes on. 
        - Allocating attention so we notice small or rapid shifts in what we experience. 
        - Goal focus, or “cognitive control,” keeping a specific goal or task in mind despite distractions. 
        - Meta-awareness, being able to track the quality of one’s own awareness—for example, noticing when your mind wanders or you’ve made a mistake. 
    - #[[E: Meta-awareness switches figure and ground in our perception, so awareness itself becomes foremost]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - In meta-awareness it does not matter what we focus our attention on, but rather that we recognize awareness itself. Usually what we perceive is a figure, with awareness in the background. Meta-awareness switches figure and ground in our perception, so awareness itself becomes foremost. 
        - Meta-awareness allows us to track our attention itself—noticing, for example, when our mind has wandered off from something we want to focus on. This ability to monitor the mind without getting swept away introduces a crucial choice point when we find our mind has wandered: we can bring our focus back to the task at hand. This simple mental skill undergirds a huge range of what makes us effective in the world—everything from learning to realizing we’ve had a creative insight to seeing a project through to its end. 
    - #[[E: That which is aware of sadness is not sad. That which is aware of fear is not fearful]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy #Quotes [[Sam Harris]]
        - The moment I am lost in thought, however, I’m as confused as anyone else.
    - #[[E: With increased attention, pain can be experienced as raw sensation, without resistance and anxiety]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Almost from the start of that endless hour Richie’s usual ache in his right knee, now intensified by the no-moving vow, went from pulsating jolts to torture. But then, just as the pain reached the unbearable point, something changed: his awareness. Suddenly, what had been pain disappeared into a collection of sensations—tingling, burning, pressure—but his knee no longer hurt. The “pain” dissolved into waves of vibrations without a trace of emotional reactivity. Focusing on just the sensations meant completely reappraising the nature of hurting: instead of fixating on the pain, the very notion of pain deconstructed into raw sensations. What went missing was just as critical: the psychological resistance to, and negative feelings about, those sensations. The pain had not vanished, but Richie had changed his relationship to it. There was just raw sensation—not my pain, along with the usual stream of angst-ridden thoughts. Though while we sit we ordinarily are oblivious to our subtle shifts in posture and the like, these small movements relieve stress that’s building in our body. When you don’t move a muscle, that stress can build into excruciating pain. And if, like Richie, you are scanning those sensations, a remarkable shift in your relationship to your own experience can occur where the feeling of “pain” melts away into a mélange of physical sensations. 
        - What we label as “pain” is a joining together of myriad constituent somatic sensations from which the label arises. With his newly altered perception, “pain” became just an idea, a mental label that puts a conceptual veneer over what arises from a motley coincidence of sensations, perceptions, and resistant thoughts. 
        - For highly advanced meditators, the recovery from pain was almost as though nothing much had happened at all. 
    - #[[E: Our default mode continually rescripts a movie where each of us stars, replaying particularly favorite or upsetting scenes over and over]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Our mind wanders mostly to something about ourselves—my thoughts, my emotions, my relationships, who liked my new post on my Facebook page—all the minutiae of our life story. By framing every event in how it impacts ourselves, the default mode makes each of us the center of the universe as we know it. Those reveries knit together our sense of “self” from the fragmentary memories, hopes, dreams, plans, and so on that center on I, me, and mine. Our default mode continually rescripts a movie where each of us stars, replaying particularly favorite or upsetting scenes over and over. The default mode turns on while we chill out, not doing anything that requires focus and effort; it blossoms during the mind’s downtime. Conversely, as we focus on some challenge, like grappling with what’s happened to your Wi-Fi signal, the default mode quiets. With nothing much else to capture our attention, our mind wanders, very often to what’s troubling us—a root cause of everyday angst. For this reason, when Harvard researchers asked thousands of people to report their mental focus and mood at random points through the day, their conclusion was that “a wandering mind is an unhappy mind.” 
        - This self-system mulls over our life—especially the problems we face, the difficulties in our relationships, our worries and anxieties. Because the self ruminates on what’s bothering us, we feel relieved when we can turn it off. One of the great appeals of high-risk sports like rock climbing seems to be just that—the danger of the sport demands a full focus on where to put your hand or foot next. More mundane worries take backstage in the mind. The same applies to “flow,” the state where people perform at their best. Paying full attention to what’s at hand, flow research tells us, rates high on the list of what puts us into—and sustains—a joyous state. The self, in its form as mind-wandering, becomes a distraction, suppressed for the time being. Managing attention, as we saw in the previous chapter, is an essential ingredient of every variety of meditation. When we become lost in thoughts during meditation, we’ve fallen into the default mode and its wandering mind. 
        - The brain’s default mode activates when we are doing nothing that demands mental effort, just letting our mind wander; we hash over thoughts and feelings (often unpleasant) that focus on ourselves, constructing the narrative we experience as our “self.” The default mode circuits quiet during mindfulness and loving-kindness meditation. In early stages of meditation this quieting of the self-system entails brain circuits that inhibit the default zones; in later practice the connections and activity within those areas wane. This quieting of the self-circuitry begins as a state effect, seen during or immediately after meditation, but with long-term practitioners it becomes an enduring trait, along with lessened activity in the default mode itself. The resulting decrease in stickiness means that self-focused thoughts and feelings that arise in the mind have much less “grab” and decreasing ability to hijack attention. 
    - #[[E: While most ways to relieve us from the burden of self are temporary, meditation paths aim to make that relief an ongoing fact of life—a lasting trait]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Traditional meditative paths contrast our everyday mental states—that stream of thoughts, many laden with angst, or to-do lists that never end—with a state of being free of these weights. And each path, in its particular terms, sees lightening our sense of self as the key to such inner freedom. 
    - #[[E: As keen observation gains strength, at some point our very sense of a solid self breaks down]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - When the pain in Richie’s knee shifted from excruciating to suddenly bearable, there was a parallel shift in how he identified with it. It was no longer “his” pain; the sense of “mine” had evaporated. Richie’s hour of utter stillness offers a glimpse of how our ordinary “self” can reduce to an optical illusion of the mind. As this keen observation gains strength, at some point our very sense of a solid self breaks down. This shift in how we experience ourselves—our pain and all that we attach to it—points to one of the main goals of all spiritual practice: lightening the system that builds our feelings of I, me, and mine. 
    - #[[E: With insights gained from meditation, we don’t have to believe our thoughts; instead of following them down some track, we can let them go]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Our sense of self emerges as a property of the many neural subsystems that thread together, among other streams, our memories, our perceptions, our emotions, and our thoughts. Any of those alone would be insufficient for a full sense of our self, but in the right combination we have the cozy feel of our unique being. Meditative traditions of all kinds share one goal: letting go of the constant grasping—the “stickiness” of our thoughts, emotions, and impulses—that guides us through our days and lives. Technically called “dereification,” this key insight has the meditator realize that thoughts, feelings, and impulses are passing, insubstantial mental events. 
    - #[[E: At the higher reaches of practice, mind training lessens the activity of our “self.”]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - “Me” and “mine” lose their self-hypnotic power; our concerns become less burdensome. Though the bill still must be paid, the lighter our “selfing,” the less we anguish about that bill and the freer we feel. We still find a way to pay it, but without the extra load of emotional baggage. 
    - #[[E: There are promising hints for meditation as a force in upgrading our epigenetics]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        -  Telomeres are the caps at the end of DNA strands that reflect how long a cell will live. The longer the telomere, the longer the life span of that cell will be. Telomerase is the enzyme that slows the age-related shortening of telomeres; the more telomerase, the better for health and longevity. A meta-analysis of four randomized controlled studies involving a total of 190 meditators found practicing mindfulness was associated with increased telomerase activity.18 
    - #[[E: Comparing each to a nonmeditator of the same age and sex, meditators were breathing an average 1.6 breaths more slowly]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - This was while they were just sitting still, waiting for a cognitive test to start. Over the course of a single day that difference in breath rate translates to more than 2,000 extra breaths for the nonmeditators—and more than 800,000 extra breaths over the course of a year. These extra breaths are physiologically taxing, and can exact a health toll as time goes on. As practice continues and breathing becomes progressively slower, the body adjusts its physiological set point for its respiratory rate accordingly. That’s a good thing. While chronic rapid breathing signifies ongoing anxiety, a slower breath rate indicates reduced autonomic activity, better mood, and salutary health. 
    - #[[E: Meditation slows the usual shrinkage of our brain as we age]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - At age fifty, longtime meditators’ brains are “younger” by 7.5 years compared to brains of nonmeditators of the same age.27 Bonus: for every year beyond fifty, the brains of practitioners were younger than their peers’ by one month and twenty-two days. Meditation, the researchers conclude, helps preserve the brain by slowing atrophy. While we doubt that brain atrophy actually can be reversed, we have reason to agree it can be slowed. 
    - #[[E: Mindfulness training—even as short as three days—produces a short-term decrease in pro-inflammatory cytokines]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy 
        - Cytokines are the molecules responsible for inflammation. And the more you practice, the lower the level becomes of these pro-inflammatory cytokines. This seems to become a trait effect with extensive practice, with imaging studies finding in meditators at rest lower levels of pro-inflamatory cytokines, along with an increased connectivity between regulatory circuitry and sectors of the brain’s self system, particularly the posterior cingulate cortex. 
    - #[[E: The yogis’ pattern of gamma oscillation contrasts with how, ordinarily, these waves occur only briefly, and in an isolated neural location]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - The adepts had a sharply heightened level of gamma waves oscillating in synchrony across their brain, independent of any particular mental act. Unheard of. 
        - The massive levels of gamma activity in the yogis and the synchrony of the gamma oscillations across widespread regions of the brain suggest the vastness and panoramic quality of awareness that they report. The yogis’ awareness in the present moment—without getting stuck in the anticipation of the future or ruminating on the past—seems reflected in the strong “inverted V” response to pain, where yogis show little anticipatory response and very rapid recovery. The yogis also show neural evidence of effortless concentration: it takes only a flicker of the neural circuitry to place their attention on a chosen object, and little to no effort to hold it there. Finally, when generating compassion, the brains of yogis become more connected to their bodies, particularly their hearts—indicating emotional resonance. 
    - #[[E: When sick, practice on that sickness. . . . When cold, practice on that coldness. By practicing in this way all situations will arise as meditation]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Contemplative practice results in transient change to start with, and to altered traits over time]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - At the start of contemplative practice, little or nothing seems to change in us. After continued practice, we notice some changes in our way of being, but they come and go. Finally, as practice stabilizes, the changes are constant and enduring, with no fluctuation. They are altered traits. 
    - #[[E: Compassion meditation shows stronger benefits early on]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - As few as seven total hours over the course of two weeks leads to increased connectivity in circuits important for empathy and positive feelings, strong enough to show up outside the meditation state per se. This is the first sign of a state morphing into a trait, though these effects likely will not last without daily practice. But the fact that they appear outside the formal meditation state itself may reflect our innate wiring for basic goodness. Beginners also find improvements in attention very early on, including less mind-wandering after just eight minutes of mindfulness practice—a short-lived benefit, to be sure. But even as little as two weeks of practice is sufficient to produce less mind-wandering and better focus and working memory, enough for a significant boost in scores on the GRE, the entrance exam for graduate school. Indeed, some findings suggest decreases in activation in the self-relevant regions of the default mode with as little as two months of practice. When it comes to physical health, there is more good news: small improvements in the molecular markers of cellular aging seem to emerge with just thirty hours of practice. Still, all such effects are unlikely to persist without sustained practice. Even so, these benefits strike us as surprisingly strong for beginners. Take-home: practicing meditation can pay off quickly in some ways, even if you have just started. 
    - #[[E: Long-term effects vary with the type of conteplation practice]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Loving-kindness and compassion practice over the long term enhance neural resonance with another person’s suffering, along with concern and a greater likelihood of actually helping. Attention, too, strengthens in many aspects with long-term practice: selective attention sharpens, the attentional blink diminishes, sustained attention becomes easier, and an alert readiness to respond increases. And long-term practitioners show enhanced ability to down-regulate the mind-wandering and self-obsessed thoughts of the default mode, as well as weakening connectivity within those circuits—signifying less self-preoccupation. These improvements often show up during meditative states, and generally tend to become traits. Shifts in very basic biological processes, such as a slower breath rate, occur only after several thousand hours of practice. Some of these impacts seem more strongly enhanced by intensive practice on retreat than by daily practice. 
    - #[[E: Neuroplasticity from long-term practice seems to create both structural and functional brain changes]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Examples are greater working connection between the amygdala and the regulatory circuits in the prefrontal areas. And the neural circuits of the nucleus accumbens associated with “wanting” or attachment appear to shrink in size with longer-term practice. While in general we see a gradient of shifts with more lifetime meditation hours, we suspect there are different rates of change in disparate neural systems. For instance, the benefits of compassion come sooner than does stress mastery. We expect studies in the future will fill in the details of a dose-response dynamic for various brain circuits. Intriguing signs suggest that long-term meditators to some degree undergo state-by-trait effects that enhance the potency of their practice. Some elements of the meditative state, like gamma waves, may continue during sleep. And a daylong retreat by seasoned meditators benefited their immune response at the genetic level—a finding that startled the medical establishment. 
    - #[[E: For most of us who meditate, concentration takes mental effort, but for the yogis with most lifetime hours, it becomes effortless]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Once their attention locks onto a target stimulus, their neural circuits for effortful attention go quiet while their attention stays perfectly focused. When the yogis meditate on compassion there’s a strengthening of the coupling between heart and brain beyond what is ordinarily seen. Finally, there is that tantalizing bit of data showing shrinking in the nucleus accumbens in long-term meditators, suggesting we might find further structural changes in the yogi’s brain that support a lessening of attachment, grasping, and self-focus. Precisely what other such neural shifts there might be, and what they mean, await deciphering in future research. 
    - #[[E: Some benefits take time to ripen—what psychologists call a “sleeper” effect]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - The ability to be aware of bodily signals like heartbeat did not increase after three months of daily practice of “presence,” which includes a mindful body scan. However, those very improvements began to show up after six months, with even bigger gains after nine months. . 
    - #[[E: The “full catastrophe” of our lives offers the best durability test of altered traits]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - While a yogi’s superlow cortisol level on retreat tells us how relaxed he can get, his cortisol level during a hectic day would reveal whether this had become a permanent, altered trait. 
    - #[[E: A meditator’s hours of retreat practice most strongly correlated with slower breathing, much more than daily practice]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - One important difference about meditation on retreat is that there are teachers available who can provide guidance—like a coach. And then there is the sheer intensity of the retreat practice, where meditators typically spend up to eight hours (and sometimes much more) a day in formal practice, often for many days in a row. And many or most retreats are at least partially in silence, which may well contribute to building intensity. All of that adds up to a unique opportunity to amp up the learning curve. 
    - #[[E: Amateurs and experts differ in how they practice]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - Amateurs learn the basic moves of the skill—whether golf, chess, or, presumably, mindfulness and the like—and very often level off after about fifty hours of improving through practice. For the rest of the time their skill level stays about the same—further practice does not lead to great improvements. Experts, on the other hand, practice differently. They do intensive sessions under the watchful eye of a coach, who suggests to them what to work on next to get even better. This leads to a continuous learning curve with steady improvements. These findings point to the need for a teacher, someone more advanced than you are, who can give you coaching on how to improve. Both of us have continued to seek guidance from meditation teachers over the years, but the opportunity occurs sporadically in our lives. 
    - #[[E: The cultivation of altered traits requires practices within several areas]] [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - The sense of a life mission centered on practice numbers among those elements so often left on a far shore, but that may matter greatly. Among others that might, in fact, be crucial for cultivating altered traits at the level found in the yogis: 
            - **An ethical stance**, a set of moral guidelines that facilitate the inner changes on the path. Many traditions urge such an inner compass, lest any abilities developed be used for personal gain. 
            - **Altruistic intention**, where the practitioner invokes the strong motivation to practice for the benefit of all others, not just oneself. 
            - **Grounded faith**, the mind-set that a particular path has value and will lead you to the transformation you seek. Some texts warn against blind faith and urge students to do what we call today “due diligence” in finding a teacher. 
            - **Personalized guidance**. A knowledgeable teacher who coaches you on the path, giving you the advice you need to go to the next step. Cognitive science knows that attaining top-level mastery requires such feedback. 
            - **Devotion**, a deep appreciation for all the people, principles, and such that make practice possible. Devotion can also be to the qualities of a divine figure, a teacher, or the teacher’s altered traits or quality of mind. 
            - **Community**. A supportive circle of friends on the path who are themselves dedicated to practice. Contrast that with the isolation of many modern meditators. 
            - **A supportive culture**. Traditional Asian cultures have long recognized the value of people who devote their life to transforming themselves to embody virtues of attention, patience, compassion, and so on. Those who work and have families willingly support those who dedicate themselves to deep practice by giving them money, feeding them, and otherwise making life easier. Not so in modern societies. 
            - **Potential for altered traits**. The very idea that these practices can lead to a liberation from our ordinary mind states—not just self-improvement—has always framed these practices, fostering respect or reverence for the path and those on it. 
    - #[[E: Consistent contemplation practice leads to benefits within several areas]][[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
        - From the beginning hours, days, and weeks of meditation, several benefits emerge. 
            - Beginners’ brains show **less amygdala reactivity to stress**. 
            - **Improvements in attention** after just two weeks of practice include better focus, less mind-wandering, and improved working memory—with a concrete payoff in boosted scores on a graduate school entrance exam. 
            - Some of the earliest benefits are with compassion meditation, including **increased connectivity in the circuitry for empathy**. 
            - **Markers for inflammation lessen** a bit with just thirty hours of practice. While these benefits emerge even with remarkably modest hours of practice, they are likely fragile, and need daily sessions to be sustained. 
        - For long-term meditators, those who have done about 1,000 hours or more of practice, the benefits documented so far are more robust, with some new ones added to the mix. 
            - There are **brain and hormonal indicators of lowered reactivity to stress and lessened inflammation**, 
            - **Strengthening of the prefrontal circuits for managing distress**
            - **Lower levels of the stress hormone cortisol**, signaling less reactivity to stresses in general. 
            - Compassion meditation at this level brings a **greater neural attunement with those who are suffering, and enhanced likelihood of doing something to help**. 
            - When it comes to attention, there are a range of benefits: **stronger selective attention, decreased attentional blink, greater ease in sustaining attention, a heightened readiness to respond to whatever may come, and less mind-wandering**. 
            - Along with fewer self-obsessed thoughts comes a **weakening of the circuitry for attachment**. 
            - Other biological and brain changes include a **slower breath rate** (indicting a slowing of the metabolic rate). 
            - **A daylong retreat enhances the immune system**, and signs of meditative states continue during sleep. All these changes suggest the emergence of altered traits.
        - Finally, there are the yogis at the “Olympic” level, who have an average of 27,000 lifetime hours of meditation. They show clear signs of altered traits, such as **large gamma waves in synchrony among far-flung brain regions**—a brain pattern not seen before in anyone—and which also occurs at rest among those yogis who have done the most hours of practice. While strongest during the practices of open presence and of compassion, the gamma continues while the mind is at rest, though to a lesser degree. Also, **yogis’ brains seem to age more slowly compared to brains of other people their age**. Other signs of the yogis’ expertise include stopping and starting meditative states in seconds, and effortlessness in meditation (particularly among the most seasoned). Their pain reaction, too, sets the yogis apart: little sign of anticipatory anxiety, a short but intense reaction during the pain itself, and then a rapid recovery. During compassion meditation, yogis’ brains and hearts couple in ways also not seen in other people. 
    - #[[E: Experienced yogis’ brain states at rest resemble the brain states of others while they meditate—the state has become a trait]]. [[Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body]] #Evergreens #Psychology #Philosophy
