- 08:36
    - #Quotes
        - From an article by [[Andy Matuschak]] [[Why books don't work]] #Inbox #Articles
        - Picture some serious non-fiction tomes. __The Selfish Gene__; __Thinking, Fast and Slow__; __Guns, Germs, and Steel__; etc. Have you ever had a book like this—one you’d read—come up in conversation, only to discover that you’d absorbed what amounts to a few sentences? I’ll be honest: it happens to me regularly. Often things go well at first. I’ll feel I can sketch the basic claims, paint the surface; but when someone asks a basic probing question, the edifice instantly collapses. Sometimes it’s a memory issue: I simply can’t recall the relevant details. But just as often, as I grasp about, I’ll realize __I had never really understood__ the idea in question, though I’d certainly thought I understood when I read the book. Indeed, I’ll realize that __I had barely noticed how little I’d absorbed__ until that very moment.
    - When reading a book, I can highlight the text to be imported to [[Roam Research]] on my [[Onyx]] or [[Ipad]]. The alternative when reading articles on the Internet is to save to Instapaper, do the highlighting there and then import to [[Roam Research]].  For saving videos from  e g [[youtube]] I can use [[Getpocket]], which does a better job than [[Instapaper]] of adding information about the saved link. So [[Empty Inbox]] will involve archiving or digesting material from both [[Instapaper]] and [[Getpocket]]
    - I have paid for a one year subscription with [[Instapaper]].
- 15:07
    - [[Lizzie]]and [[Helene]] were here yesterday so that [[Lizzie]] could pick blueberries in the forest, they stayed overnight and have recently left for Arboga. [[Lizzie]] fell in the forest yesterday, today she has a swelling by her ribs, the council health care will check on her during the afternoon.
    - [[Kerstin]] asked me to fetch [[Amanda]] yesterday afternoon so that she could meet with [[Lizzie]] and [[Helene]]. [[Lizzie]] and [[Helene]] went into the forest directly after lunch, so by the time I was going fetch [[Amanda]] there would not be time for her to join them in the forest. She flipped out when she realized that she would miss the berrypicking, amongst other things calling [[Kerstin]] an idiot. It is cause for concern that small issues can lead to her losing all reason and adopting the behaviour of a two year old.
    - Later in the afternoon I took [[Helene]] to MediaMarkt to look at different options for laptop or Ipad, as she will need a private computer during her time in America.
    - I ordered six bottles of wine through [[Samuel]] from Delheim wine farm, they have arrived at his place. Kerstin will fetch Leo this afternoon and bring him home, she will pick up the wine at the same time.
    - I am feeling the onset of inflammation in some of my fingers, probably due to all the [[Touch Typing]] training (about an hour a day). So I'll skip the training for a few days, I will get some practice in writing this journal and doing whatever work I do. I feel that I have made good progress during the month or so that I have been training. The first [[Touch Typing]] training to be registered in my [[Habit-tracker]] was on [[June 16th, 2020]]
- 20:32
    - I have been checking out some of [[Ali Abdaal]]s videos on [[Nebula]]. in one of them, titled “One simple habit that changed my life” he makes a case for listening to audio content at 2x or 2.5x speed, mostly because that way you get to consume more content. He talks on the video with [[Cliff Weizman]] about the cost in time of listening to an audiobook or a podcats and how this can be reduced. [[Ali Abdaal]] seems to feel that this can be done without losing comprehension. He recommends increasing listening speed gradually. Worth a try, I think. Both the [[Castro]] podcast app and [[Bookmobile]] can play faster than 1x. #Books #Podcast. [[Cliff Weizman]] also recommends an app to speed up video playback for the same reason.
