- Keywords:: #Books #Readit 
- Author:: [[Eric Barker]]
- Recommended by::
- Comments:
- Notes:
- Highlights:
    - #[[E: Schools reward students who consistently do what they are told.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] 
        - Academic grades correlate only loosely with intelligence. Grades are, however, an excellent predictor of self-discipline, conscientiousness, and the ability to comply with rules. 
        - If you want to do well in school and you’re passionate about math, you need to stop working on it to make sure you get an A in history too. This generalist approach doesn’t lead to expertise. Yet eventually we almost all go on to careers in which one skill is highly rewarded and other skills aren’t that important.
        - Intellectual students who enjoy learning struggle in high school. They have passions they want to focus on, are more interested in achieving mastery, and find the structure of school stifling. Meanwhile, the valedictorians are intensely pragmatic. They follow the rules and prize A’s over skills and deep understanding.
        - School has clear rules. Life often doesn’t. When there’s no clear path to follow, academic high achievers break down.
        - While the valedictorian treats school as a job, working hard to get A’s and follow the rules, the obsessed creative succeeds by bearing down on his or her passion projects with a religious zeal.
        - Very creative people are more arrogant, dishonest, and disorganized. They also get lower grades in school. Despite what teachers may say, they dislike creative students because those children often don’t do what they’re told. Does this sound like a great employee to you? Hardly. So it’s no surprise that #[[Creativity]] is inversely correlated with employee performance reviews. Creative people are less likely to be promoted to CEO
    - #[[E: Following the rules doesn’t create success; it just eliminates extremes—both good and bad.]] 
        - While this is usually good and all but eliminates downside risk, it also frequently eliminates earthshaking accomplishments #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Expertise [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        -  "#[[E: If you’re an outsider, an artist, an unfiltered leader, you’ll be climbing uphill if you try to succeed by complying with a rigid, formal structure.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]"
            - There are two fundamentally different types of leaders. The first kind rises up through formal channels, getting promoted, playing by the rules, and meeting expectations. These leaders, like Neville Chamberlain, are “filtered.”  The unfiltered candidates have not been vetted by the system and cannot be relied upon to make the “approved” decisions—many would not even know what the approved decisions are. They do unexpected things, have different backgrounds, and are often unpredictable. Yet they bring change and make a difference. Often that difference is a negative. Since they don’t play by the rules, they often break the institutions they are guiding. A minority of unfiltered leaders are transformative, though, shedding organizations of their misguided beliefs and foolish consistencies, and turning them toward better horizons. These are the leaders that have enormous positive impact. (Example: Churchill)
        - "#[[E: Schools reward students who consistently do what they are told.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] "
    - #[[E: If you’re an outsider, an artist, an unfiltered leader, you’ll be climbing uphill if you try to succeed by complying with a rigid, formal structure.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - By dampening your intensifiers, you’ll be not only at odds with who you are but also denying your key advantages. 
        - If you’re good at playing by the rules, if you related to those valedictorians, if you’re a filtered leader, then double down on that. Make sure you have a path that works for you. People high in conscientiousness do great in school and in many areas of life where there are clear answers and a clear path. But when there aren’t, life is really hard for them. Without a path to follow they’re lost.  
        - When creative geniuses take personality tests, their scores on the pathology scales fall in a middle range. Creators exhibit more psychopathology than average persons, but less than true psychotics. They seem to possess just the right amount of weirdness.
        - Mildly creative people are mentally healthier than average—but extremely creative people have a far higher incidence of mental disorders. Much like with Leadership Filtration Theory, reaching the heights of success requires a dip into qualities that are otherwise problematic.
        - You’ve got to pick the environments that work for you . . . context is so important. The unfiltered leader who is an amazing success in one situation will be a catastrophic failure in the other, in almost all cases. It’s way too easy to think, “I’ve always succeeded, I am a success, I am successful because I am a success, because it’s about me, and therefore I will succeed in this new environment.” Wrong. You were successful because you happened to be in an environment where your biases and predispositions and talents and abilities all happened to align neatly with those things that would produce success in that environment
        - We tend to think experts are experts just because of their unique skills and we forget the power of context, of knowing one’s way around, of the teams who support them, and the shorthand they develop together over time
    - #[[E: Most people are dandelions; they’ll come out okay under almost any circumstances. Others are orchids; they’re not just more sensitive to negative outcomes but more sensitive to everything.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #[[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Orchids won’t flourish in the dirt by the side of a road like a dandelion would. With the right environment and good parenting, they can grow up to be society’s most creative, successful, and happy people. 
        - There’s no doubt that for many losing a parent at a young age is devastating, with profound negative effects. But for some,  such a tragedy instills in a child the feeling that the world is not safe and that an immense amount of energy and effort will be needed to survive. Due to their unique personality and circumstances, these orphans overcompensate and turn tragedy into fuel for greatness.
    - #[[E: While improving yourself is noble and necessary, many of the more fundamental aspects of personality don’t change.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Traits like verbal fluency, adaptability, impulsivity, and humility are stable from childhood through adulthood. 
    - #[[E: Bad behavior is strong in the short term but good behavior wins in the long term]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] 
        - Jerks aren’t afraid to push a little. They self-promote. They negotiate. They make themselves visible. This can be done without being a jerk. Maybe you won’t gain everything the jerks get, but you can benefit from putting yourself out there—and without losing your soul. . So to the best of your ability, make things longer term. Build more steps into the contract. Entice others with ways you can help them down the line. The more things seem like a one-off, the more incentive people have to pull one over on you. The more interactions or friends you have in common with other people, and the more likely you are to encounter them again, the more it makes sense for these people to treat you well.
        - Being the first to offer help is key to engendering a feeling of reciprocity, which is one of the cornerstones of persuasion and ingratiation
        - To truly scale effort and succeed means going beyond selfishness to create trust and achieve cooperation.
        - Always worrying about being cheated or killed makes transactions too costly, preventing efficient dealings. You need rules and cooperation, and that means trust. When you know and trust someone, it makes a transaction smoother and faster. That means more transactions happen, producing a better market and more value for everyone involved
        - People who surround us often determine who we become. When we see others around us perform altruistic acts, we’re more likely to act altruistically ourselves.
    - #[[E: People are always trying to discern two things: whether a potential partner can be trusted and whether he or she is likely to be encountered again.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        -  Answers to those two questions, far beyond anything else, will determine what any of us will be motivated to do in the moment.
    - #[[E: Creative individuals frame their experiences. ]] #[[Evergreens]] #Creativity #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Such people are highly ambitious, and they do not always succeed, by any means. But when they fail, they do not waste much time lamenting; blaming; or, at the extreme, quitting. Instead, regarding the failure as a learning experience, they try to build upon its lessons in their future endeavors. 
        - In your head, you say between three hundred and a thousand words every minute to yourself. Those words can be positive (I can do it) or negative (Oh god, I can’t take this anymore). It turns out that when these words are positive, they have a huge effect on your mental toughness, your ability to keep going
        - Helplessness is the result of a pessimistic attitude. Pessimism kills grit. It says “Give up and go home” instead of “Gimme one more try. I can do it.”
        - Depression is pessimism writ large.
        - When asked to make predictions, depressed people are more accurate than optimists. It’s called “depressive realism.” The world can be a harsh place. Optimists lie to themselves. But if we all stop believing anything can change, nothing ever will. We need a bit of fantasy to keep us going.
        - Pessimists tell themselves that bad events
            - will last a long time, or forever (I’ll never get this done);
            - are universal (I can’t trust any of these people);
            - are their own fault (I’m terrible at this).
        - When we’re optimistic, research shows we experience a host of benefits:
            - Optimism is associated with better health and a longer life.
            - Expecting a positive outcome from negotiations makes groups more likely to close a deal and to be happy with it.
            - Optimists are luckier. By thinking positive they persevere and end up creating more opportunities for themselves.
        - Optimists tell themselves that bad events
            - are temporary (That happens occasionally, but it’s not a big deal );
            - have a specific cause and aren’t universal (When the weather is better that won’t be a problem);
            - are not their fault (I’m good at this, but today wasn’t my lucky day).
        - Lucky people don’t dwell on failure; they see the good side of the bad and often learn from it
        - Lucky people maximize opportunities
        - People who believe they can succeed see opportunities, where others see threats. They are not afraid of uncertainty or ambiguity, they embrace it. They take more risks and achieve greater returns. Given the choice, they bet on themselves. Successful people have a high “internal locus of control.” In other words, they do not feel like victims of fate. They see their success as a function of their own motivation and ability—not luck, random chance, or fate. They carry this belief even when luck does play a crucial role in success.
    - #[[E: Meaning, for the human mind, comes in the form of the stories we tell ourselves about the world.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Philosophy [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] #Meaning
        - This is why so many people believe in fate or say things were “meant to be.” Having a story about the meaning of life helps us to cope with hard times. Not only do we naturally see the world this way, but frankly we can’t not tell stories. Stories are the invisible undercurrent that promotes success in a shocking number of the most important areas of life.
        - Viktor Frankl realized that in the most awful place on Earth, the people who kept going despite the horrors were the ones who had meaning in their lives:  A man who becomes conscious of the responsibility he bears toward a human being who affectionately waits for him, or to an unfinished work, will never be able to throw away his life. He knows the “why” for his existence, and will be able to bear almost any “how".
        - If life is all about pleasure, then when it ceases to be fun or immediately beneficial, we quit. When we step outside the wish for comfort, when we live for something greater than ourselves, we no longer have to fight the pain; we accept the pain as a sacrifice. Frankl said, “What is to give light must endure burning.”  And we don’t give up.  It’s the stories we tell ourselves that keep us going. They can be a higher truth. Or, in many cases, they don’t need to be true at all
        - What best predicts the success of romantic relationships? It’s not sex or money or having the same goals. Researcher John Gottman realized that just hearing how the couple told the tale of their relationship together predicted with 94 percent accuracy whether or not they’d get divorced.  What’s the best predictor of your child’s emotional well-being? It’s not great schools, hugs, or Pixar movies. Researchers at Emory University found that whether a kid knew their family history was the number-one indicator
        - People who commit suicide often weren’t in the worst circumstances, but they have fallen short of the expectations they had of themselves. Their lives were not matching the stories in their heads.
        - Stories aren’t perfect pictures of the world, but they allow us to succeed for this very reason. They can keep us going and become prophecy. You weren’t “born” to do anything in particular, but when your story says you were “born” to do something you perform better and persist. After all, it’s your destiny.
    - #[[E: Résumé Values are the things that bring external success, like money and promotions. Eulogy values are about character: Am I kind, trustworthy, or courageous?]] #[[Evergreens]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - When you take a little time to think about death, you become more kind and generous to others. You put aside short-term goals for a moment and consider who you really want to be. It sounds morbid, but people who contemplate the end actually behave in healthier ways—and therefore may actually live longer. It also has been shown to increase self-esteem.
    - #[[E: Instead of behavior following our beliefs, often our beliefs come from our behaviors.]]  #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] 
        - {{embed: ((hAnnYy-z2))}}
"#[[E: Regular training leads to changes in the parts of the brain that are challenged by the training.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise  #[[Psychology]]"
            - By engaging in cognitive reappraisal, and telling ourselves a different story about what is happening, we can subvert the entire willpower paradigm. 
            - Smiling when you’re sad can make you feel happy, and moving like you’re powerful actually makes you more resistant to pain. A feeling of control reduces stress—even if you’re not in control. The perception is all that matters
            - The secret of leadership is the ability to play a role, to pretend, to be skilled in the theatrical arts . . . To come across effectively, we need to master how to convey power.”
    - #[[E: Willpower is like a muscle, and it gets tired with overuse. But it only gets depleted if there’s a struggle. Games change the struggle to something else.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #[[Productivity]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] #Games
        - {{embed: ((zRG8JOh1L))}}
        - They make the process fun, and we are able to persist far longer and without the same level of teeth-gritting willpower depletion.
        - What all good games have in common: WNGF. They’re Winnable. They have Novel challenges and Goals, and provide Feedback.
        - Good games continually have new levels, new enemies, new achievements. Our brains love novelty, and good games make sure we’re always stimulated by something just a little different, honing our attention.  Games engage us with challenges. They are designed to create what [[Mihály Csikszentmihályi]] calls “flow,” which is when we’re immersed in something enough to forget the passage of time. We’re never bored or overwhelmed because good games keep a perfect balance of hard but not too hard, easy but never too easy. And as we improve, games up the difficulty. We’re always stretching our abilities just enough to keep us hooked
        - You need a better way to score your work game. Take a moment at the end of every day to ask yourself, “What one thing can I do to make progress on important work tomorrow?” It gives you a goal to shoot for. Give yourself a clear idea of how to measure or achieve that, like Joe Simpson’s twenty minutes, and you’re on your way to a motivating system.
        - Flow is most reliably and most efficiently produced by the specific combination of self-chosen goals, personally optimized obstacles, and continuous feedback that make up the essential structure of gameplay. 
        - We crave ease, but stimulation is what really makes us happy. We try to subtract at work, do less, check out. These are signs of burnout. We don’t need to subtract; we need to add novel challenges to create engagement.
        - The best motivation is provided by progress in meaningful work
        - Life satisfaction is more likely for those with a steady stream of minor accomplishments than those who express interest only in major accomplishments
        - Sheer quantity ultimately leads to quality
        - As [[Henry David Thoreau]] said, “The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it. #Quotes
    - #[[E: When we choose to quit pursuing unattainable goals, we’re happier, less stressed, and get sick less often.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Which people are the most stressed out? Those who wouldn’t quit what wasn’t working
        - You can’t do it all and do it well. Kill the activities that don’t produce results and double down on what does.
        - Grit can’t exist without quit
        - We always think we need more: more help, more motivation, more energy. But in our current world the answer is often the exact opposite: we need less. Fewer distractions, fewer goals, fewer responsibilities. Is that so we can watch more TV? No. We need less of those things so we can go all in on our priorities. The question is what are you going to do less of? What are you going to quit or say no to in order to make time for what matters most
        - A strong desire for novelty and a low threshold for frustration may be adaptive earlier in life: Moving on from dead-end pursuits is essential to the discovery of more promising paths
        - Trying stuff outside your field of expertise is correlated with big achievements. Facing different challenges in different contexts makes it possible to look at things differently, to challenge assumptions, and to realize breakthroughs. Getting lots of different ideas crashing together turns out to be one of the keys to #[[Creativity]].
        - We have all said that we should have quit that job or ended that relationship sooner. If you quit the stuff you know isn’t working for you, you free up time for things that might. We’re bombarded by stories of persistence leading to success, but we don’t hear as much about the benefits of quitting. No one wants to be the skydiver who pulled the rip cord too late.
    - #[[E: Fantasizing gives us the reward before we’ve accomplished the task and saps the energy we need to realize it]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - "#[[E: WOOP —wish, outcome, obstacle, plan—is applicable to most any of your goals, from career to relationships to exercise and weight loss.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] #WOOP"
    - #[[E: WOOP —wish, outcome, obstacle, plan—is applicable to most any of your goals, from career to relationships to exercise and weight loss.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] #WOOP
        - "#[[E: The most effective method for reducing stress is having a plan.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]"
        - WOOP can tell you what needs grit and help you muster the drive to soldier on. But it also can tell you what to quit and help you handle that transition less painfully.
            - **W**ish - A meaningful, challenging, and feasible wish or goal
            - **O**utcome - The best result or feeling from accomplishing your wish
            - **O**bstacle - Something __inside of you __that prevents you from accomplishing your wish
            - **P**lan - If [obstacle], then I will [effective action]
        - "#[[E: Fantasizing gives us the reward before we’ve accomplished the task and saps the energy we need to realize it]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]"
        - [Link](https://www.panoramaed.com/blog/setting-goals-woop)
    - #[[E: Joining a group that consists of the type of people you want to become can enable you to drastically change your life.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - {{embed: ((7GlDSZoch))}}
        - For people who want improved health, association with other healthy people is usually the strongest and most direct path of change.
        - The only place where relationships don’t matter is on a desert island far away from the rest of the world.
        - What makes close friendships endure is simply staying in touch regularly.
        - Workers least likely to develop workplace friendships are the least likely to get promoted.
        - Having few friends is more dangerous than obesity and is the equivalent health risk of smoking fifteen cigarettes a day.
        - The people who survive stress the best are the ones who actually increase their social investments in the middle of stress, which is the opposite of what most of us do. Social connection is the greatest predictor of happiness
        - What’s the most important type of alignment? Being connected to a group of friends and loved ones who help you become the person you want to be. Financial success is great, but to have a successful life we need happiness. Career success doesn’t always make us happy, but the research shows that happiness does bring success.
        - The only thing that really matters in life are your relationships to other people
    - #[[E: It’s having a coach or teacher who really makes something exciting to be involved in that leads you to often put in the practice necessary to become an expert at it.]]  #[[Evergreens]] #Expertise [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - {{embed: ((2nLG29xkM))}}
        - {{embed: ((Pj1hh0OZD))}}
        - When you relate to someone you look up to, you get motivated. And when that person makes you feel you can do that too, bang—that produces real results. What makes a mentor want to go the extra mile for you? When you demonstrate you have explored every conceivable avenue and can go no further without the mentor’s help. Seeing that you have done everything in your power shows you’re smart, you won’t waste their time, and you’re resourceful. Most mentors see themselves that way too, so the two of you now have something very important in common
        - One of the critical elements of a great mentor isn’t just secret knowledge and emotional support; it 's pushing you harder. A great mentor’s expectations and demands are constantly raised until they are at a point where the student is expected to do virtually all that is humanly possible.
    - #[[E: When people are riled up about something and you show them evidence that conflicts with what they believe, the areas of their brain associated with logic literally shut down.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - The regions associated with aggression light up. 
        - As far as their brain is concerned, it’s not a rational discussion—it’s war. The brain can’t process what you’re saying; it’s just trying to win. Your head works the same way unless you make an effort to control it
        - When we’re stuck in bargaining mode we’re always calculating costs and benefits in the short term. Without the loyalty and trust of friendship, the model is competitive by nature. We don’t want the other person to get more than we do. But when we treat the relationship like a friendship, we exchange more information and can explore new ways to meet each other’s needs
    - #[[E: Confidence can improve performance and success. It can make others believe in you. But confidence can also be extremely dangerous. It can lead to delusion and hubris]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Everybody wants to increase self-confidence. That’s because confidence feels good. Confidence makes us feel powerful. But feeling powerful can be a slippery slope to denial and hubris. Even if our confidence starts out justified, we often fall down that slippery slope and begin to think we’re skilled beyond our little domain. It’s not that we’re dumb; it’s just that the story we tell ourselves makes us feel too powerful and we get sloppy. Power reduces empathy, makes us hypocritical, and causes us to dehumanize others
        - Incompetence is a problem that inexperienced people have, and all things being equal, we don’t entrust inexperienced people with all that much power or authority. Overconfidence is usually the mistake of experts, and we do give them a lot of power and authority. Plain and simple, incompetence is frustrating, but the people guilty of it usually can’t screw things up that bad. The people guilty of overconfidence can do much more damage.
        - When we’re less sure, we’re more open to new ideas and we’re actively and passively scanning the world for new ones. When we have that confident feeling of power, we don’t pay as much attention, because we feel we don’t need to.
        - Low self-confidence may turn you into a pessimist, but when pessimism teams-up with ambition it often produces outstanding performance. To be the very best at anything, you will need to be your harshest critic, and that is almost impossible when your starting point is high self-confidence.
        - We think of leaders as tending toward narcissism, and narcissists do tend to become leaders, but they don’t thrive there. The performance of narcissists is relative to how much of a chance there is for them to look cool. This produces a really negative effect: when things are at their worst and leaders are needed the most, narcissists are the least likely to be engaged.
        - Confidence is a result of success, not a cause
    - #[[E: Self-Compassion has all the benefits of self-esteem—but without the downsides]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] #Compassion
        - You can feel good and perform well while not turning into a jerk or being unable to improve. Unlike self-confidence, self-[[Compassion]] doesn’t lead to delusion. People high in the trait have increased clarity. They see themselves and the world more accurately but didn’t judge themselves as harshly when they fail. Meanwhile, people focused on self-esteem often feel the need to delude themselves or to dismiss negative—but useful—feedback in order to still feel good about themselves. They cling to theirself-validating theories instead of seeing the real world. This leads to hubris and narcissism. There is a solid correlation between self-esteem and narcissism, while the connection between self-[[Compassion]] and narcissism is pretty much zero.
        - Self-[[Compassion]] is strongly related to psychological wellbeing, including increased happiness, optimism, personal initiative, and connectedness, as well as decreased anxiety, depression, neurotic perfectionism, and rumination
        - Self-esteem is the greatest sickness known to man or woman because it’s conditional.  People with self-[[Compassion]] don’t feel the need to constantly prove themselves, and research shows they are less likely to feel like a “loser.”
        - Forgiving yourself is easier than maintaining self-confidence. You don’t need to constantly revise the inflated stories you tell yourself and you don’t need to slay a dragon every day to prove you’re worth something. 
        - We like to hear good things about ourselves, but we also like to hear things that are true. The reason it’s so difficult to increase self-esteem is that, sadly, we can’t always do both. Self-[[Compassion]] says that’s okay.
        - Recognize your failures and frustrations without either denying them or seeing them as the end of the world. No rationalizing or melodrama. Then do something about them. 
        - Jotting down nice thoughts to yourself, how you’re a fallible human and how you can see problems without turning them into emotional disasters, makes people feel better and increases self-[[Compassion]]. Meditation and mindfulness pay off too.
    - #[[E: Voluminous Productivity is the rule and not the exception among the individuals who have made noteworthy contributions]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Productivity]] #Expertise [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]] 
        - {{embed: ((kiucVIbQT))}}
        - Without an IQ of 120, very few people end up producing anything that will be groundbreaking and remembered in the history books. But the twist is that as long as you’re past the 120 mark, many studies show more IQ points have little effect. What makes the difference? Not luck. It’s all those hours
        - Hours alone also aren’t enough. Those hours need to be hard. You need to be pushing yourself to be better
    - #[[E: Ambition is predictive of success, and motivation predicts career success better than intelligence, ability, or salary]] #[[Evergreens]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
    - #[[E: Meaningful work means doing something that’s (a) important to you and (b) something you’re good at.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #[[Productivity]] #Meaning [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - If you do those things you’re uniquely good at (psychologists call them “signature strengths”), they’re some of the biggest happiness-boosting activities of all
        - Retiring is associated with cognitive decline, heart disease, and cancer. Those effects weren’t due to aging but because people stop being active and engaged
        - Burnout isn’t just an acute overdose of stress; it is clinical depression
        - Burnout is the result of a pessimistic attitude toward your job. This isn’t getting me anywhere. I can’t handle this. It’s never going to get any better
        - You need a personal definition of success. Looking around you to see if you’re succeeding is no longer a realistic option. Trying to be a relative success compared to others is dangerous
        - When you align your values with the employment of your signature skills in a context that reinforces these same strengths, you create a powerful and emotionally engaging force for achievement, significance, happiness, and legacy. When your internal choice of success goals aligns with the group in which you operate, the rewards are even higher.
    - #[[E: We have to become “choosers” instead of “pickers.”]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - A picker selects from the options available, leading us into false dichotomies created by the options we see in front of us. But a chooser is thoughtful enough to conclude that perhaps none of the available alternatives are satisfactory, and that if he or she wants the right alternative, he or she may have to create it. 
        - People handle having lots of choices in two ways: by “maximizing” or “satisficing.” Maximizing is exploring all the options, weighing them, and trying to get the best. Satisficing is thinking about what you need and picking the first thing that fulfills those needs. Satisficing is living by “good enough"
        - We have so many options these days that we end up being pickers, not choosers, and that’s a big part of the problem here. We don’t decide what we want and then go get it. Things are shoved in our faces and then we shrug and say, “Okay, I guess.” Basically, we let other people tell us what to do.
    - #[[E: Four metrics that matter most: Happiness, Achievement, Significance, Legacy]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - **HAPPINESS** = ENJOYING: having feelings of pleasure or contentment in and about your life. 
        - **ACHIEVEMENT **= WINNING : achieving accomplishments that compare favorably against similar goals others have strived for. 
        - **SIGNIFICANCE **= COUNTING (TO OTHERS): having a positive impact on people you care about. 
        - **LEGACY **= EXTENDING: establishing your values or accomplishments in ways that help others find future success
        - You want the balance of the big four that works for you. Make a decision on how much time you want to allot to each per week
    - #[[E: The most effective method for reducing stress is having a plan.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Motivation [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - When we think about obstacles ahead of time and consider how to overcome them, we feel in control. 
        - That’s the secret to really getting things done.
    - #[[E: Most of us use our calendars all wrong: we don’t schedule work; we schedule interruptions.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Productivity]] [[Barking Up the Wrong Tree]]
        - Schedule tasks rather than just listing them. 
        - "#[[E: My solution to the to-do-list problem is to separate the decision about what to do from the act of doing it. I call my approach the Might-Do List.]] [[Make Time: How to Focus on What Matters Every Day]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Productivity]]"
        - At least an hour a day, preferably in the morning, needs to be “protected time.” This is an hour every day when you get real work done without interruption. Approach this concept as if it were a religious ritual. This hour is inviolate. Emails, meetings, and phone calls are often just “shallow work.” You want to use this hour for deep work.
        - A good way to deal with busy work is in “batches.” Rather than reactively living in your inbox, schedule a few intervals when you process emails, return phone calls, and shuffle the papers that need shuffling. After that session is over, turn off notifications, silence the phone, and get back to important stuff
        - Very successful people say no to almost everything
