- Author:: [[Tom Thompson]]
- URL:: https://theheartofconsciousliving.wordpress.com/2015/08/21/cathexis/
- Recommended By:: [[Robert Salzman]]
- Tags:: #Articles #Readit
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: "Cathect" is the giving of meaning and significance to particular ideas, events, objects, or people]]. #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - The word “cathect” comes from psychoanalytic theory. It means to invest our libidinal energy (creative life force and emotional energy), consciously or unconsciously, into giving meaning and significance to particular ideas, events, objects, or people. 
    - #[[E: When the cathexis ends, usually so does the relationship]] #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - Catholics cathect on crucifixes. Buddhist cathect on Buddha statues. Disciples cathect on gurus. Teenagers cathect on rock stars. Adults cathect on movie stars. Infatuated couples cathect on each other. Patients cathect on therapists. Therapists cathect on patients. Readers cathect on books.
    - #[[E: How true is something if you have to believe in it in order for it to be true? ]] #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - I began to notice that if I didn’t keep propping up all of this spiritual stuff all the time with an incredible investment of practice, thought, belief and energy, it kept falling apart. This made me very suspicious! 
        - I realized that if something is true, I didn’t have to believe in it, because it is true. I only had to believe in things that weren’t true, because they are not true.
        - I suddenly stopped believing in anything.
        - Suddenly, “I” spontaneously stopped propping up all of “my” beliefs and philosophies. The bottom fell out. The entire universe as I had known it collapsed. “Me,” as I had known “me” to be, disappeared. The world stopped. Cathexis stopped. 
    - #Quotes “Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn’t go away.” [[Philip K. Dick]] 
    - #[[E: When cathexis ends, the experience of a separate “me” ends]] #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - As cathexis ended, it was discovered that the one thing that had been cathected the most was this idea and image of a separate and unique “me!” When cathexis ended, the experience of a separate “me” ended. This cathected “me” idea was the source of all other cathexis. When it is said that you create your own reality what is really being said is that the creative intelligence energy that has become identified with a “me” is now cathecting an entire universe to prop “me” up. When “I” give meaning and significance to something, it becomes the mirror that reflects meaning and significance back to “me.” “My” guru, “my” car, “my” religion, “my” country, “my” beliefs, “my” opinions, “my” experience, “my” husband or wife. It makes “me” appear more real. 
        - When cathexis ends, all projected significance and meaning disappear. When this happens, if there is still some belief in a separate and unique “me,” existential despair arises. Uh-oh! If there is no significance and meaning in anything, what is the point of “me”? What is the purpose of “my” life? Who am “I”? How should “I” live “my” life? These are the existential questions of despair shouted out of the now apparently empty and meaningless box of “me.” The “me” is now attempting to give meaning and significance to the fact that life has no meaning and significance. This seemingly nihilistic view is simply another philosophical stance the “me” mind takes to protect itself. 
        - If the process of cathecting somehow comes to a complete stop, the pure awareness that enlivens the human body-mind instrument no longer has a separate “me” to worry about and reflect upon. The being simply is, present and aware. There continues to be a functional cognitive center within the body, but not much occupies its psychic space as it no longer has to keep propping itself up. Life creates it, uses it, flows through it, and is it. The being relaxes into life as it wants to be lived. There is no resistance to it being as it is, and no problem, even if it cathects. All the thought that was once necessary to prop up a separate sense of self with its own little world is now gone. There is silence instead. All the life energy once used to hold “me” and “my” world together is now free to dance as it will. And it does. 
    - #[[E: Whatever “I” become, I cathect significance and meaning into it, and it becomes “real” to me]]. #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - A crucifix seen by a devout Catholic exists in a completely different world than a crucifix seen by a traditional Thai Buddhist, who does not cathect a personal deity out into the universe at all. A Catholic and a Buddhist cathect different universes, and tend to believe their universe is the “real” one. 
    - #[[E: Cathecting is not good or bad. It is what the “I” does to give significance, purpose and meaning to its life]]. #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - Cathecting does seem to cause apparent problems among the apparent “me’s” that actually believe in what they have cathected and then kill, burn, torture, blow up or disparage those “me’s” that have cathected something else out into the vastness. The greatest cathected value is in the separate “me” itself, without which the meaningful world cannot be projected. We love our illusions. We are our illusions. We resist being disillusioned. 
    - #[[E: Everything that exists, exists now. Everything that happens, happens now. This is it. This is all there ever is]]. #Evergreens #Philosophy #Cathexis
        - The life scripts and the set of assumptions they are based upon are gone. All philosophical, religious, metaphysical and existential questions are gone. There is no past or future 
