- Author:: [[Cal Newport]]
- Recommended By:: [[Brian Johnson]]
- Reading status:: #Readit
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: The ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive. 
        - Deep work is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy at the same time that it also is becoming increasingly rare (for somewhat arbitrary reasons). This represents a classic market mismatch: If you cultivate this skill, you’ll thrive professionally. 
    - #[[E: The unprecedented growth and impact of technology are creating a massive restructuring of our economy.]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - In this new economy, three groups will have a particular advantage: 
            - those who can work well and creatively with intelligent machines, 
            - those who are the best at what they do, 
            - those with access to capital. 
        - Two Core Abilities for Thriving in the New Economy 
            - The ability to quickly master hard things. 
            - The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed. 
        - Intelligent machines are complicated and hard to master. To join the group of those who can work well with these machines, therefore, requires that you hone your ability to master hard things. And because these technologies change rapidly, this process of mastering hard things never ends: You must be able to do it quickly, again and again. 
        - The core abilities depend on your ability to perform deep work. 
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice requires focused attention]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Diffused attention is almost antithetical to the focused attention required by deliberate practice
        - Deliberate practice is the systematic stretching of your ability for a given skill. It is the activity required to get better at something. Deep work and deliberate practice, overlap substantially. 
    - #[[E: By focusing intensely on a specific skill, you’re forcing the specific relevant neural circuit to fire, again and again, in isolation]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - This repetitive use of a specific circuit triggers cells called oligodendrocytes to begin wrapping layers of myelin around the neurons in the circuits—effectively cementing the skill. The reason, therefore, why it’s important to focus intensely on the task at hand while avoiding distraction is because this is the only way to isolate the relevant neural circuit enough to trigger useful myelination. By contrast, if you’re trying to learn a complex new skill (say, SQL database management) in a state of low concentration (perhaps you also have your Facebook feed open), you’re firing too many circuits simultaneously and haphazardly to isolate the group of neurons you actually want to strengthen. 
        - In work (and especially knowledge work), to increase the time you spend in a state of depth is to leverage the complex machinery of the human brain in a way that for several different neurological reasons maximizes the meaning and satisfaction you’ll associate with your working life. 
        - #Quotes “The best moments usually occur when a person’s body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile.” [[Mihály Csikszentmihályi]] 
    - #[[E: High-Quality Work Produced = (Time Spent) x (Intensity of Focus)]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
    - #[[E: The attention residue left by unresolved task switches dampens your performance]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - The common habit of working in a state of semi-distraction is potentially devastating to your performance. It might seem harmless to take a quick glance at your inbox every ten minutes or so. Indeed, many justify this behavior as better than the old practice of leaving an inbox open on the screen at all times (a straw-man habit that few follow anymore). But Leroy teaches us that this is not in fact much of an improvement. That quick check introduces a new target for your attention. Even worse, by seeing messages that you cannot deal with at the moment (which is almost always the case), you’ll be forced to turn back to the primary task with a secondary task left unfinished. The attention residue left by such unresolved switches dampens your performance. 
        - Although our current embrace of distraction is a real phenomenon, it’s built on an unstable foundation and can be easily dismissed once you decide to cultivate a deep work ethic. 
        - If e-mail were to move to the periphery of your workday, you’d be required to deploy a more thoughtful approach to figuring out what you should be working on and for how long. 
        - The type of work that optimizes your performance is deep work. 
    - #[[E: The niches in which deep work is not required are increasingly rare]][[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Unless you have strong evidence that distraction is important for your specific profession, you’re best served by giving serious consideration to depth. 
    - #[[E: Without clear feedback on the impact of various behaviors, we will tend toward behaviors that are easiest in the moment]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - If you work in an environment where you can get an answer to a question or a specific piece of information immediately when the need arises, this makes your life easier—at least, in the moment. 
        - Consider the common practice of setting up regularly occurring meetings for projects. These meetings tend to pile up and fracture schedules to the point where sustained focus during the day becomes impossible. Why do they persist? They’re easier. For many, these standing meetings become a simple (but blunt) form of personal organization. Instead of trying to manage their time and obligations themselves, they let the impending meeting each week force them to take some action on a given project and more generally provide a highly visible simulacrum of progress. 
        - The Principle of Least Resistance, protected from scrutiny by the metric black hole, supports work cultures that save us from the short-term discomfort of concentration and planning, at the expense of long-term satisfaction and the production of real value. By doing so, this principle drives us toward shallow work in an economy that increasingly rewards depth. 
    - #Quotes “Managers inhabit a bewildering psychic landscape, and are made anxious by the vague imperatives they must answer to.” [[Mathew Crawford]]
    - #[[E: Busyness is a Proxy for Productivity]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - In the absence of clear indicators of what it means to be productive and valuable in their jobs, many knowledge workers turn back toward an industrial indicator of productivity: doing lots of stuff in a visible manner. 
        - Knowledge work is not an assembly line, and extracting value from information is an activity that’s often at odds with busyness, not supported by it. 
        - The potent mixture of job ambiguity and lack of metrics to measure the effectiveness of different strategies allows behavior that can seem ridiculous when viewed objectively to thrive in the increasingly bewildering psychic landscape of our daily work. 
        - Deep work should be a priority in today’s business climate. But it’s not. There are various explanations for this paradox:
            - Deep work is hard and shallow work is easier, 
            - In the absence of clear goals for your job, the visible busyness that surrounds shallow work becomes self-preserving, 
            - Our culture has developed a belief that if a behavior relates to “the Internet,” then it’s good—regardless of its impact on our ability to produce valuable things. 
            - All of these trends are enabled by the difficulty of directly measuring the value of depth or the cost of ignoring it. 
        - Depth-destroying behaviors such as immediate e-mail responses and an active social media presence are lauded, while avoidance of these trends generates suspicion. 
    - ##[[E: There is a clear connection between deep work and flow]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Deep work is an activity well suited to generate a [[flow]] state.
        - The phrases used by Csikszentmihalyi to describe what generates flow include 
            - Stretching your mind to its limits, 
            - Concentrating, 
            - Losing yourself in an activity
        - #Quotes Ironically, jobs are actually easier to enjoy than free time, because like flow activities they have built-in goals, feedback rules, and challenges, all of which encourage one to become involved in one’s work, to concentrate and lose oneself in it. Free time, on the other hand, is unstructured, and requires much greater effort to be shaped into something that can be enjoyed. [[Mihály Csikszentmihályi]]
        - To build your working life around the experience of [[flow]] produced by deep work is a proven path to deep satisfaction. 
    - #[[E: When the individual is seen as the source of truth, meaning can be hard to find]][[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - From Descartes’s skepticism came the radical belief that the individual seeking certainty trumped a God or king bestowing truth. The resulting Enlightenment, of course, led to the concept of human rights and freed many from oppression. But as Dreyfus and Kelly emphasize, for all its good in the political arena, in the domain of the metaphysical this thinking stripped the world of the order and sacredness essential to creating meaning. In a post-Enlightenment world we have tasked ourselves to identify what’s meaningful and what’s not, an exercise that can seem arbitrary and induce a creeping nihilism. “The Enlightenment’s metaphysical embrace of the autonomous individual leads not just to a boring life,” Dreyfus and Kelly worry; “it leads almost inevitably to a nearly unlivable one.” 
        - The task of a craftsman is not to generate meaning, but rather to cultivate in himself the skill of discerning the meanings that are already there.
    - #[[E: You don’t need a rarified job; you need instead a rarified approach to your work]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - To embrace deep work in your own career, and to direct it toward cultivating your skill, is an effort that can transform a knowledge work job from a distracted, draining obligation into something satisfying—a portal to a world full of shining, wondrous things. 
    - #[[E: Monastic approach: Maximize deep efforts by eliminating or radically minimizing shallow obligations]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - The **monastic philosophy** of deep work scheduling attempts to maximize deep efforts by eliminating or radically minimizing shallow obligations. Practitioners of the monastic philosophy tend to have a well-defined and highly valued professional goal that they’re pursuing, and the bulk of their professional success comes from doing this one thing exceptionally well. It’s this clarity that helps them eliminate the thicket of shallow concerns that tend to trip up those whose value proposition in the working world is more varied. 
    - #[[E: Bimodal approach: divide your time, dedicating some clearly defined stretches to deep pursuits and leaving the rest open to everything else]]  [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Jung’s approach is what I call the **bimodal philosophy** of deep work. This philosophy asks that you divide your time, dedicating some clearly defined stretches to deep pursuits and leaving the rest open to everything else. During the deep time, the bimodal worker will act monastically—seeking intense and uninterrupted concentration. During the shallow time, such focus is not prioritized. This division of time between deep and open can happen on multiple scales. For example, on the scale of a week, you might dedicate a four-day weekend to depth and the rest to open time. Similarly, on the scale of a year, you might dedicate one season to contain most of your deep stretches (as many academics do over the summer or while on sabbatical). 
        - The bimodal philosophy believes that deep work can produce extreme productivity, but only if the subject dedicates enough time to such endeavors to reach maximum cognitive intensity—the state in which real breakthroughs occur. This is why the minimum unit of time for deep work in this philosophy tends to be at least one full day. To put aside a few hours in the morning, for example, is too short to count as a deep work stretch for an adherent of this approach. 
    - #[[E: The easiest way to consistently start deep work sessions is to transform them into a simple regular habit]].  [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - The goal, is to generate a rhythm for this work that removes the need for you to invest energy in deciding if and when you’re going to go deep. **The chain method** is a good example of the rhythmic philosophy of deep work scheduling because it combines a simple scheduling heuristic (do the work every day), with an easy way to remind yourself to do the work: the big red Xs on the calendar. Another common way to implement the rhythmic philosophy is to replace the visual aid of the chain method with a set starting time that you use every day for deep work. In much the same way that maintaining visual indicators of your work progress can reduce the barrier to entry for going deep, eliminating even the simplest scheduling decisions, such as when during the day to do the work, also reduces this barrier. 
    - #[[E: The Journalist approach: Fit deep work wherever you can into your schedule]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - This name is a nod to the fact that journalists are trained to shift into a writing mode on a moment’s notice, as is required by the deadline-driven nature of their profession. 
        - The journalistic philosophy of deep work scheduling is difficult to pull off. But if you’re confident in the value of what you’re trying to produce, and practiced in the skill of going deep (a skill we will continue to develop in the strategies that follow), it can be a surprisingly robust way to squeeze out large amounts of depth from an otherwise demanding schedule. 
    - #Quotes There is a popular notion that artists work from inspiration—that there is some strike or bolt or bubbling up of creative mojo from who knows where… but I hope [my work] makes clear that waiting for inspiration to strike is a terrible, terrible plan. In fact, perhaps the single best piece of advice I can offer to anyone trying to do creative work is to ignore inspiration. [[Mason Currey]]
    - #[[E: Rituals can be used to support deep work]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - There’s no one correct deep work ritual—the right fit depends on both the person and the type of project pursued. But there are some general questions that any effective ritual must address: 
            - Where you’ll work and for how long. Your ritual needs to specify a location for your deep work efforts. 
            - Your ritual needs rules and processes to keep your efforts structured. For example, you might institute a ban on any Internet use, or maintain a metric such as words produced per twenty-minute interval to keep your concentration honed. 
            - How you’ll support your work. Your ritual needs to ensure your brain gets the support it needs to keep operating at a high level of depth. For example, the ritual might specify that you start with a cup of good coffee, or make sure you have access to enough food of the right type to maintain energy, or integrate light exercise such as walking to help keep the mind clear. 
    - #[[E: A grand gesture can make it easier to maintain motivation]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - By leveraging a radical change to your normal environment, coupled perhaps with a significant investment of effort or money, all dedicated toward supporting a deep work task, you increase the perceived importance of the task. This boost in importance reduces your mind’s instinct to procrastinate and delivers an injection of motivation and energy. 
    - #[[E: Hub and spoke arrangements are preferable to the open landscape office]][[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Expose yourself to ideas in hubs on a regular basis, but maintain a spoke in which to work deeply on what you encounter. 
        - Separate your pursuit of serendipitous encounters from your efforts to think deeply and build on these inspirations. You should try to optimize each effort separately, as opposed to mixing them together into a sludge that impedes both goals. Second, even when you retreat to a spoke to think deeply, when it’s reasonable to leverage the whiteboard effect, do so. By working side by side with someone on a problem, you can push each other toward deeper levels of depth, and therefore toward the generation of more and more valuable output as compared to working alone. 
    - #[[E: Focus on the Wildly Important ]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Execution should be aimed at a small number of “wildly important goals.” This simplicity will help focus an organization’s energy to a sufficient intensity to ignite real results. 
    - #Quotes “If you want to win the war for attention, don’t try to say ‘no’ to the trivial distractions you find on the information smorgasbord; try to say ‘yes’ to the subject that arouses a terrifying longing, and let the terrifying longing crowd out everything else.” [[David Brooks]]
    - #[[E: Once you’ve identified a wildly important goal, you need to measure your success]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - There are two types of metrics for this purpose: lag measures and lead measures. 
            - **Lag measures** describe the thing you’re ultimately trying to improve. For example, if your goal is to increase customer satisfaction in your bakery, then the relevant lag measure is your customer satisfaction scores. The problem with lag measures is that they come too late to change your behavior: “When you receive them, the performance that drove them is already in the past.” 
            - **Lead measures**, on the other hand, “measure the new behaviors that will drive success on the lag measures.” In the bakery example, a good lead measure might be the number of customers who receive free samples. This is a number you can directly increase by giving out more samples. As you increase this number, your lag measures will likely eventually improve as well. In other words, lead measures turn your attention to improving the behaviors you directly control in the near future that will then have a positive impact on your long-term goals. 
    - #[[E: The best lead measure is time spent in a state of deep work dedicated toward your wildly important goal]]  [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
    - #[[E: Practice weekly review. Review the past week and plan for the coming one]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
    - #[[E: Idleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence or a vice; it is indispensable to the brain]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Idleness is paradoxically, necessary to getting any work done. 
        - You should  inject regular and substantial freedom from professional concerns into your day, providing you with the idleness paradoxically required to get (deep) work done. 
        - At the end of the workday, shut down your consideration of work issues until the next morning-no after-dinner e-mail check, no mental replays of conversations, and no scheming about how you’ll handle an upcoming challenge; shut down work thinking completely. If you need more time, then extend your workday, but once you shut down, your mind must be left free. 
        - Only the confidence that you’re done with work until the next day can convince your brain to downshift to the level where it can begin to recharge for the next day to follow. 
    - #[[E: Some decisions are better left to your unconscious mind to untangle]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - To actively try to work through these decisions will lead to a worse outcome than loading up the relevant information and then moving on to something else while letting the subconscious layers of your mind mull things over. 
        - For decisions that require the application of strict rules, the conscious mind must be involved. For example, if you need to do a math calculation, only your conscious mind is able to follow the precise arithmetic rules needed for correctness. On the other hand, for decisions that involve large amounts of information and multiple vague, and perhaps even conflicting, constraints, your unconscious mind is well suited to tackle the issue. This is due to the fact that these regions of your brain have more neuronal bandwidth available, allowing them to move around more information and sift through more potential solutions than your conscious centers of thinking. 
        - Spending time in nature can improve your ability to concentrate. 
    - #[[E: Directed attention is a finite resource. If you exhaust it, you’ll struggle to concentrate]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - When walking through nature, you’re freed from having to direct your attention, as there are few challenges to navigate (like crowded street crossings), and experience enough interesting stimuli to keep your mind sufficiently occupied to avoid the need to actively aim your attention. This state allows your directed attention resources time to replenish. 
        - For a novice, somewhere around an hour a day of intense concentration seems to be a limit, while for experts this number can expand to as many as four hours—but rarely more. 
        - Your capacity for deep work in a given day is limited. If you’re careful about your schedule, you should hit your daily deep work capacity during your workday. It follows, therefore, that by evening, you’re beyond the point where you can continue to effectively work deeply. Any work you do fit into the night, therefore, won’t be the type of high-value activities that really advance your career; your efforts will instead likely be confined to low-value shallow tasks (executed at a slow, low-energy pace). By deferring evening work, in other words, you’re not missing out on much of importance. 
        - Once your workday shuts down, you cannot allow even the smallest incursion of professional concerns into your field of attention. This includes, crucially, checking e-mail, as well as browsing work-related websites. In both cases, even a brief intrusion of work can generate a self-reinforcing stream of distraction that impedes the shutdown advantages described earlier for a long time to follow (most people are familiar, for example, with the experience of glancing at an alarming e-mail on a Saturday morning and then having its implications haunt your thoughts for the rest of the weekend). 
        - Regularly resting your brain improves the quality of your deep work. When you work, work hard. When you’re done, be done. 
        - Once you’ve hit your deep work limit in a given day, you’ll experience diminishing rewards if you try to cram in more. Shallow work, therefore, doesn’t become dangerous until after you add enough to begin to crowd out your bounded deep efforts for the day. 
    - #[[E: Support your commitment to shutting down with a strict shutdown ritual that you use at the end of the workday]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - This ritual should ensure that every incomplete task, goal, or project has been reviewed and that for each you have confirmed that either (1) you have a plan you trust for its completion, or (2) it’s captured in a place where it will be revisited when the time is right. The process should be an algorithm: a series of steps you always conduct, one after another. When you’re done, have a set phrase you say that indicates completion (to end my own ritual, I say, “Shutdown complete”). This final step sounds cheesy, but it provides a simple cue to your mind that it’s safe to release work-related thoughts for the rest of the day.
        - Checklist for shutdown ritual: 
            - Check your e-mail inbox to ensure that there’s nothing requiring an urgent response before the day ends. 
            - Transfer any new tasks that are on your mind or were scribbled down earlier in the day into your official task lists. 
            - Skim every task in every list, and then look at the next few days on your calendar. These two actions ensure that there’s nothing urgent you are forgetting or any important deadlines or appointments sneaking up on you. You have, at this point, reviewed everything that’s on your professional plate. To end the ritual, use this information to make a rough plan for the next day. 
    - #[[E: Committing to a specific plan for a goal not only facilitates attainment of the goal but also frees cognitive resources for other pursuits]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
    - #[[E: Efforts to deepen your focus will struggle if you don’t simultaneously wean your mind from a dependence on distraction]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Much in the same way that athletes must take care of their bodies outside of their training sessions, you’ll struggle to achieve the deepest levels of concentration if you spend the rest of your time fleeing the slightest hint of boredom. 
        - #Quotes People who multitask all the time can’t filter out irrelevancy. They can’t manage a working memory. They’re chronically distracted. They initiate much larger parts of their brain that are irrelevant to the task at hand… they’re pretty much mental wrecks. [[Cliffor Nass]]
        - If every moment of potential boredom in your life—say, having to wait five minutes in line or sit alone in a restaurant until a friend arrives—is relieved with a quick glance at your smartphone, then your brain has likely been rewired to a point where it’s not ready for deep work—even if you regularly schedule time to practice concentration. 
        - The use of a distracting service does not, by itself, reduce your brain’s ability to focus. It’s instead the constant switching from low-stimuli/high-value activities to high-stimuli/low-value activities, at the slightest hint of boredom or cognitive challenge, that teaches your mind to never tolerate an absence of novelty. This constant switching can be understood analogously as weakening the mental muscles responsible for organizing the many sources vying for your attention. By segregating Internet use (and therefore segregating distractions) you’re minimizing the number of times you give in to distraction, and by doing so you let these attention-selecting muscles strengthen. 
    - #[[E: Schedule in advance when you’ll use the Internet, and then avoid it altogether outside these times]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - I suggest that you keep a notepad near your computer at work. On this pad, record the next time you’re allowed to use the Internet. Until you arrive at that time, absolutely no network connectivity is allowed—no matter how tempting. 
        - For example, if you’ve scheduled your next Internet block thirty minutes from the current moment, and you’re beginning to feel bored and crave distraction, the next thirty minutes of resistance become a session of concentration calisthenics. A full day of scheduled distraction therefore becomes a full day of similar mental training. 
        - Regardless of how you schedule your Internet blocks, you must keep the time outside these blocks absolutely free from Internet use. 
        - To succeed with deep work you must rewire your brain to be comfortable resisting distracting stimuli. This doesn’t mean that you have to eliminate distracting behaviors; it’s sufficient that you instead eliminate the ability of such behaviors to hijack your attention. The simple strategy proposed here of scheduling Internet blocks goes a long way toward helping you regain this attention autonomy. 
    - #[[E: To simply wait and be bored has become a novel experience in modern life, but from the perspective of concentration training, it’s incredibly valuable]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - This is particularly difficult when you’re forced to wait (for example, standing in line at a store). It’s crucial in these situations that if you’re in an offline block, you simply gird yourself for the temporary boredom, and fight through it with only the company of your thoughts.
    - #[[E: Use deadlines to aid concentration]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - Identify a deep task (that is, something that requires deep work to complete) that’s high on your priority list. Estimate how long you’d normally put aside for an obligation of this type, then give yourself a hard deadline that drastically reduces this time. At this point, there should be only one possible way to get the deep task done in time: working with great intensity—no e-mail breaks, no daydreaming, no Facebook browsing, no repeated trips to the coffee machine. Attack the task with every free neuron until it gives way under your unwavering barrage of concentration. 
        - #[[E: Divide the hours of your workday into blocks and assign activities to the blocks]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - If your schedule is disrupted, you should, at the next available moment, take a few minutes to create a revised schedule for the time that remains in the day. You can turn to a new page. You can erase and redraw blocks. 
            - Be liberal with your use of task blocks. Deploy many throughout your day and make them longer than required to handle the tasks you plan in the morning. Lots of things come up during the typical knowledge worker’s day: Having regularly occurring blocks of time to address these surprises keeps things running smoothly. 
            - This type of scheduling isn’t about constraint—it’s instead about thoughtfulness. It’s a simple habit that forces you to continually take a moment throughout your day and ask: “What makes sense for me to do with the time that remains?” It’s the habit of asking that returns results, not your unyielding fidelity to the answer. 
        - #[[E: Fixed-schedule productivity is a meta-habit that’s simple to adopt but broad in its impact]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - If you have to choose just one behavior that reorients your focus toward the deep, this one should be high on your list of possibilities. 
            - A commitment to fixed-schedule productivity shifts you into a scarcity mind-set. Suddenly any obligation beyond your deepest efforts is suspect and seen as potentially disruptive. Your default answer becomes no, the bar for gaining access to your time and attention rises precipitously, and you begin to organize the efforts that pass these obstacles with a ruthless efficiency. 
        - #[[E: Class activities on a deep  - shallow scale. Bias your time toward the former]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - #[[E: Figure out in advance what you’re going to do with your evenings and weekends before they begin]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - Structured hobbies provide good fodder for these hours, as they generate specific actions with specific goals to fill your time. A set program of reading, where you spend regular time each night making progress on a series of deliberately chosen books, is also a good option, as is, of course, exercise or the enjoyment of good (in-person) company. 
        - #[[E: If you service low-impact activities, you’re taking away time you could be spending on higher-impact activities]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - #[[E: The use of network tools can be harmful and should be restricted]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - If you don’t attempt to weigh pros against cons, but instead use any glimpse of some potential benefit as justification for unrestrained use of a tool, then you’re unwittingly crippling your ability to succeed in the world of knowledge work. 
            - These services, if used without limit, can be particularly devastating to your quest to work deeper. They offer personalized information arriving on an unpredictable intermittent schedule - making them massively addictive and therefore capable of severely damaging your attempts to schedule and succeed with any act of concentration. Given these dangers, you might expect that more knowledge workers would avoid these tools altogether - especially those like computer programmers or writers whose livelihood explicitly depends on the outcome of deep work. But part of what makes social media insidious is that the companies that profit from your attention have succeeded with a masterful marketing coup: convincing our culture that if you don’t use their products you might miss out. 
            - Consider the network tools you currently use. For each such tool, go through the key activities you identified and ask whether the use of the tool has a substantially positive impact, a substantially negative impact, or little impact on your regular and successful participation in the activity. Now comes the important decision: Keep using this tool only if you concluded that it has substantial positive impacts and that these outweigh the negative impacts.
        - #[[E: One of the biggest differences between memory athletes and the rest of us is in a cognitive ability that’s not a direct measure of memory at all but of attention]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - #[[E: It helps to have some structure for the deep thinking process]]  [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - Start with a careful review of the relevant variables for solving the problem and then store these values in your working memory. For example, if you’re working on the outline for a book chapter, the relevant variables might be the main points you want to make in the chapter.
            - Consolidate your gains by reviewing clearly the answer you identified. At this point, you can push yourself to the next level of depth by starting the process over. This cycle of reviewing and storing variables, identifying and tackling the next-step question, then consolidating your gains is like an intense workout routine for your concentration ability. 
        - #[[E: When faced with a hard problem, your mind, as it was evolved to do, will attempt to avoid excess expenditure of energy when possible]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - One way it might attempt to sidestep this expenditure is by avoiding diving deeper into the problem by instead looping over and over again on what you already know about it. 
        - #[[E: While performing activities which do not require concentration, focus your attention on a single well-defined professional problem]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - Examples of such activities are walking, jogging, driving, showering. As in mindfulness meditation, you must continue to bring your attention back to the problem at hand when it wanders or stalls. 
        - #[[E: In many settings, 80 percent of a given effect is due to just 20 percent of the possible causes]]. [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
        - #[[E: Ensure that you are not distracted by your email inbox]] [[Deep Work]] #Evergreens #[[Productivity]]
            - Ask yourself what is the project represented by an incoming message, and what is the most efficient (in terms of messages generated) process for bringing this project to a successful conclusion? 
            - By putting more thought up front into what’s really being proposed by the e-mail messages that flit in and out of your inbox, you’ll greatly reduce the negative impact of this technology on your ability to do work that actually matters. 
            - #Quotes “Develop the habit of letting small bad things happen. If you don’t, you’ll never find time for the life-changing big things.” [[Tim Ferris]]
        - 
        - 
    - 
    - 
