- Highlights:
    - [Link](https://nesslabs.com/[[Productivity]]-porn).
    - "Not all [[Productivity]] strategies are made equal. While some are backed by science, others are cobbled together by self-experimenting entrepreneurs who are selling readers the dream of a magically more productive, effortless life."
    - "There is nothing wrong with encouraging people to be the best version of themselves. However, [[Productivity]] porn promotes the vision of becoming an entirely different person. What’s more, it promises you to get there fast."
    - "The unmistakable “look at me, I got it all figured out” personal brand many [[Productivity]] gurus use to attract and retain readers is often a sign of [[Productivity]] porn. While some [[Productivity]] writers may have achieved certain results, it is deceiving to pretend there is a step-by-step recipe anyone could apply to achieve the same outcome"
    - "[[Productivity]] porn targets our tendency for wishful thinking. While positive thinking can actually lead to a more productive behaviour—that’s called the Pygmalion effect—wishful thinking shapes our decisions based on what may be pleasing to imagine, rather than on rationality"
    - "At its core, [[Productivity]] porn is a form of procrastination. When we don’t feel like working, planning and reading act as illusionary substitutes: they give us the illusion of [[Productivity]]. Buying the perfect bullet-point journal, researching the best Pomodoro apps, watching videos explaining how “that one [[Productivity]] trick will change your life…” Instead of making us more productive, these are preventing us from getting work done."
    - "Hearing someone say that there is in fact a magic formula that will guarantee success is reassuring. But when the effortless success we imagined fails to manifest itself, it’s our mental health that suffers."
    - "Here are a few ways you can switch from [[Productivity]] porn to mindful [[Productivity]].
        - Identify actual bottlenecks. You don’t need a [[Productivity]] system for everything. Ask yourself: what are my challenges? What is getting in the way of achieving my goals? Again—weird sleep patterns that have zero impact on your health and life? Let it be. Chronic lack of motivation that prevents you from getting the work done? Worth looking into it.
        - Make time for self-reflection. We spend so much time at work; don’t work mindlessly. Take the time to dig deeper into your thoughts and emotions. Identify the parts of your work you find most enjoyable, and the ones you don’t. When you procrastinate, ask yourself why. Learn the difference between worry, anxiety, and stress. Some people like journaling, others do a weekly review, and yet others have a thinking buddy or support group. Find the self-reflection method that works for you.
        - Manage your information diet. The same way you try to be mindful of the food you eat, be mindful of the information you consume. Balance your information diet. Curate your inbox so you only receive useful or enjoyable content—not [[Productivity]] porn that makes you feel miserable because of unattainable strategies.
        - Lastly, don’t overthink it, and focus on the process! There is no better way to learn than doing. So get started and learn from your mistakes. The best personal [[Productivity]] coach is yourself."
