- 09:02
    - Yesterday evening I wote to NYT on messenger that I wanted to cancel my subscription and had been unable to do so due to long queues to the customer service chat. They cancelled my subscription directly, mission accomplished.
    - Yesterday Joakim turned up to complete his work with our paving stones. He levelled the stones outside [[Kerstin]]'s ateljé and pressure washed the stones on our paths. [[Kerstin]] felt that the total work involved did not motivate the money he had asked and insisted that he also clean the rust from our metal pillars. After much objection he agreed to this,
- Import
    - [[Utilities on PC ]]
        - From: Utilities on PC 76b7e6963a0d4ea0b509786522fc3822.md
- Import
    - #[[Booklists]] 
        - From: Booklists 3379056376cd4b62b7283cfec7517b89.md
- 16:45
    - I have gone back to my Notion database and looked at what I might need in Roam. I also tested exporting from Notion to Roam. So far, I cannot get a page containing other pages which in their turn contain links (to web pages) to export and import correctly. The links no longer work . I am able to export links into Notion, so I can maintain Notion pages to which I can link from Roam. In that case, I will not get the bidirectional linking.
    - When I move more complex pages from Notion to Roam, it will involve a lot of manual work. I should be careful about what I import and how I fit it in to what is already there.  
    - I registered today with Nat Eliason's Roam course, so the best strategy might be to follow the course before dumping lots of stuff in the database. It is however difficult to learn without doing at the same time, so it will be a combination. 
- 20:31
    - Susanne has arrived from Gothenburg, she will stay with us for a few days.
