- 06:56
    - There is a lot of duplication in my various folders, which makes it unnecessarily difficult to find space for operational and backup material.  I  have added purging of duplicates to the [[Storage and Backup]] project.
    - I am interested in [[Tiago Forte]]s ideas about the [[Full Stack Freelancer]] and would like to delve into this. A new activity for the #[[Business Future]] project.
    - I have finished [[Reading]] [[Joyce Carol Oates]] book [[Night. Sleep. Death. the Stars]]. Not a happy book, but very perceptive and well written.
    - Started [[Reading]] [[Atomic Habits: Tiny Changes, Remarkable Results]] by [[James Clear]]. The idea of changing personality and motivation by changing behaviour in small steps is quite convincing. Relates to the book [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] as well as [[The Motivation Myth: How High Achievers Really Set Themselves Up to Win]] (which I have not yet read but seen a review of): {{[[youtube]]: https://youtu.be/kzAuvOr-YsM}}
    - Started using [[Roam Research]] **sliders **for my  projects. This is a better way of following up this type of activity than done/not done as in a todo. "Many/most of my tracked activities need to be moved forward repeatedly. I.e. the **do date** has to be changed because I did not get to  perform the activity in advance of it. This is not a problem unless I am delayed past the **due date**, which only exists for a small minority of tasks. I need a list of active tasks which are not date driven. "
    - After updating my [[Onyx]] firmware, sync of notes and highlights to [[OneNote]] has started to work.
    - Purchased [[Breevy]]text expander
    - Purchased [[Udemy]]course [[Photoshop CC 2020 Master Class]]. It will be cheaper for me to purchase individual courses than to subscribe to LinkedIn Learning.
- 19:24
    - [[Kerstin]] and I ate lunch at home and drove afterwards to [[Marianne]]'s summer cottage at Simonstorp. It was windy but I enjoyed #bathing and we hung out there for about an hour. 
    - I grilled a leg of deer for dinner that had been in our freezer for some time,  [[Samuel]] had given it to us when he was participating in a deer hunt. It took a couple of hours in the grill, and came out nicely.
    - Spoke to [[Esther]].  No special news. She mentioned that Dr Mercola had praised the Swedish Corona strategy.
- 23:10
    - I watched for a second time [[Anonym.s]] videos on task management in [[Roam Research]]. I realised that he has a workflow which adresses an issue that I have with task management, which is that you set a date for each task, but the task seldom gets done by that date. There is unnecessary work involved in repeatedly moving tasks forward in time. There is also a potential source of stress in repeatedly acknowledging that tasks are delayed. [[Nat Eliason]] uses a TODO Vault and a [[Live List]]. The TODO Vault contains a complete list of all tasks (in categories) and tasks that are intended to be worked with the next day are moved from there to the [[Live List]] as part of a daily routine. As tasks are moved to the [[Live List]] in the form of block references, they can be deleted from the [[Live List]] and will still remain in the TODO Vault.
    - So I created a structure in line with [[Anonym.s]] suggestion, and populated it with some tasks. I really like it and lean towards moving from [[Notion]] to [[Roam Research]] for task management.
[Link to video on task management](https://youtu.be/HBoR53i27tI)
[Link to video on task management update](https://youtu.be/Ud7MPLCOMEg)
    - The more I work with [[Roam Research]] the more impressed I become with its power.
