- 09:45
    - [[Samuel]]and the children will be here for lunch, we will take care of the children while [[Samuel]]and [[Josefine]]are at their therapy session this afternoon.  After that, they may turn up for dinner. So most of the day will be spent with them. I would rather have more time for my own projects, but you gotta do what you gotta do.
    - I feel quite a lot of satisfaction about new approaches I have taken in the last few months:
        - Moving from Trello to Notion, and then integrating other aspects in Notion, inspired to some extent by [[August Bradley]].
        - Learning to touch type
        - [[Reading]] [[Sönke Ahrens]] book and testing his ideas in [[Reading]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]].
        - Finding out ways to support these new ways of learning, e.g. starting to use [[Roam Research]], devising workflows on [[Onyx]] and [[Ipad]] to capture notes and highlights
        - Working with #[[Booklists]], although that work has not come far enough to produce useful results. I want to have an overview of all my books as well as a better method for managing a queue of books to be checked out and then read. Perhaps I should host the book queue in [[Roam Research]] rather than [[Notion]], so that I can use links to other stuff I am working with in order to help place reading candidates in the queue.
        - One area in which I feel that I am not moving forward is that of #[[Photography]]. I need to consider if I can (or wish to) apply the methods described in [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]]. This would imply that I need to acquire a coach, as there is no other way that I know of to judge progress and to know what needs to be improved. My experience of working with Micke Berg was not positive. He is a street photographer and wanted that aesthetic from his students. I do not see myself as a street photographer. I need to decide what kind of photographer I want to work with. I have to get used to the fact that working with a photography teacher will challenge my fears, in the same way as Micke Berg (and even Alex Webb) did.
I should consider the alternative of considering myself satisfied with my photography. It gives me pleasure and there is no-one else I need to satisfy. How should I decide?
        - I have begun to remove unstarred photos from my [[Lightroom Laptop]]atalog - something I do now and then. It seems that the metadata for many of my images has been lost. Pictures I have edited are suddenly unedited, and the star rating is gone. This might explain why many images have gone missing earlier - they lose their star rating and then I purge them. I wonder if the xmp files have gone missing. I also wonder if something happens with the external disc when the laptop goes into hibernate mode, so that [[Lightroom]] does not get to write changes to the files. Actions:
            - Convert image files to dng. Check out this link: https://helpx.adobe.com/[[Lightroom]]-classic/help/metadata-basics-actions.html
            - Use a picture folder on the C: drive.
            - Large catalog with pictures folder on D: drive 
C:\Users\davsa\Pictures\[[Lightroom]]\[[Lightroom]] Catalog.
            - New catalog for bilder on SSD
C:\Users\davsa\Pictures\[[Lightroom]] C\[[Lightroom]] C.lrcat
Images in this catalog will be DNG
            - New [[Calibre]]-vc encrypted file:
C:\Users\davsa\Calibre-vc
    - changed bedsheets today
