- HAMRA LINHATTE 214C, 623 32 Burgsvik
https://goo.gl/maps/Pnq6s7CQe8VGzcSW8
- [[Gotland]]
- 08:29
writing a journal entry for the first time in Roam. I signed up yesterday and spent some time moving (copying) stuff from my inbox and reference database in Notion. so now I have some interlinked Roam pages and am considering next steps. I want to explore ways of implementing the ideas in [[Sönke Ahrens]]. My Roam pages consist mostly of external links. These are what [[Sönke Ahrens]] would call fleeting notes. They are of little use in themselves. I need to add my own comments, explaining why the link will be useful and for what. In that way, create what [[Sönke Ahrens]] would call permanent notes. At the moment, I am accumulating links at a rate that will be difficult to keep up with by adding my comments. Perhaps I should continue to use Notion as my inbox, and only move stuff to Roam that I find useful enough to put comments on. On the other hand, before committing to Roam in the form of a lot of work, I would like to have a fairly large set of linked pages to play with.
- We ate at Gåsens Lada yesterday evening with Johan and Helene, very pleasant.
- [[Samuel]]and [[Josefine]] are in a crisis in their relationship. [[Josefine]]has moved in with Sophie and does not answer Samuel’s calls. Samuel has been on the phone to [[Kerstin]] several times yesterday. Apparently he has also spoken to [[Esther]] about it.
- 15:48
We have checked in at hotel Magazin1, after eating lunch and resting on the beach at Nisseviken.
- 17:39
Another aspect of the many links is that these are links which have been useful to me or may at some time be useful to me. many of them can be seen as reminders to check them out. I meed to establish a routine to check out these links and then either delete them or write permanent notes about them.
- yesterday evening Helene, Johan, [[Kerstin]] and I had a conversation about makong decisions, in which my view was that there is nobody making decisions, things happen but there is no decider. The thought was quite foreign to the others, but after we had discussed for a while, I got the impression that at least Johan began to see what I was getting at.
- Still [[Reading]] [[Sönke Ahrens]] book, which is full of ideas that I would like to implement. I hope that I can find/make enough time in the coming weeks to practice his principles. Being enthusiastic about [[Sönke Ahrens]], I have paused my [[Reading]] of [[Joyce Carol Oates]] book.
- /
