- 13:11
    - I have been considering cancelling my subscription to the NYT for some time. I accepted an offer from them to subscribe for 4 euro per month, they have since raised that to 8 euro, which I do not think it is worth. I have not done anything about this for some months, but today I read a retweet by [[Sam Harris]] of a resignation letter by Bari Weiss: https://www.bariweiss.com/resignation-letter. Now that the editorial integrity of the NYT is in question, I think it is time to act. It turns out that it is more or less impossible to cancel a NYT subscription. You have to contact a customer agent, which requires waiting in an endless chat queue. Irritating. 
    - We will take care of the grandchildren this afternoon while [[Josefine]]and [[Samuel]] have their first session with a family therapist. You gotta do what you gotta do, but at the moment I want nothing more than to continue working on my Roam structure. 
    - OK, time to think about Roam structure. Some links I'll need:
        - #[[Creativity]] #[[Photography]] #[[Philosophy]] #[[Business Future]][[Creative writing]] #[[Health]]
    - Recreation:
        - Chess, novels, [[Films]], nonfiction apart from links above etc. No goals need to be set. I’ll leave these out of the Roam structure for the time being.
- 20:27
    - Both [[Samuel]]and [[Josefine]]came here this evening to fetch the children. They seem relieved after their therapy session. We didn't have a chance to talk because the children were around us, but I got the impression that they felt they had a lot of work to do but that it was not insurmountable. They have a new session booked for Monday. 
