- 10:23
    - The screen protector for my [[Onyx]] came off during our journey to Gotland. I ordered a new one through [fruugo](https://www.fruugo.se/) from [atfolix](https://atfolix.info/home/) in Germany. It arrived yesterday and I put it on the [[Onyx]], it was much superior to the one that came with the product and made a big difference to the user experience. I'm quite pleased with the change.
    - Yesterday evening I looked at the contents of a harddrive I have had for some time (Volume name: [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]]). The contents are a mess. 500 GB are free of a total of 2.23 TB. Amongs other things, there are 2 complete [[Lightroom]] backups on the disk, dated **201712** and **20180602**. The folders are not well structured and the pictures folder is hard to find:
^^\lightroom backup catalogs\20170712_complete_backup\D-\[[Lightroom Laptop]]atalog\pictures\bilder\2015^^
I looked in both of these catalogs for images which are on [[Smugmug]] but are missing from my catalog on [[Seagate Expansion Drive]], i.e [[Hults Bruk 20151122]]. The images are not in either of these catalogs. Quite a mystery.
    - I do not trust the [[Seagate Expansion Drive]], although possible problems with this drive don't necessarily explain missing files from 2017. (The drive was purchased in June 2018).
    - I am runnning [[Syncback]] to move the contents  from the [[Seagate Expansion Drive]] , storing them temporarily on the [[Seagate Bac]] drive, which is a 2TB drive. I am considering using the [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]] to host my large [[Lightroom]] catalog, so I will have to move the contents to create space on the disk. Alternatively purchase an external SSD drive to house my large catalog. (**Samsung T5** looks good).
    - I have an item on my [action list](https://www.notion.so/3ebe93c81cd54e648154938ea0842383?v=a66741ccc6c14c91aa3eeb9846d92895) to produce a backup strategy, but I can't start there, I have to start with a storage strategy, a map of what is to be stored on my various harddrives and cloud services. It was the breakdown of my desktop PC (Fujitsu Esprimo) which has made the problem acute, but the problem of poor storage structure was there long before that.  Invoice for the Fujitsu:
{{pdf: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FDavidsroam%2FM4RX2ttlja.pdf?alt=media&token=3938a44f-d068-4c8f-a9f6-545ef7967471}}
    - We took [[Alice]], [[Leo]] and [[Ellen]] on an outing to town today. [Pictures](https://www.davidsapire.com/Unlisted-galleries/Events/n-bpRWxq/20200722-In-town-with-grandchildren/). I was unwilling, but [[Samuel]] needed to work and the three children would have been a lot for [[Kerstin]] to handle, so I went along. It was fun, actually.
    - #[[Storage and Backup]]. Steps to be taken:
        - Backup everything from [[Seagate Expansion Drive]] to [[Seagate Bac]]. This includes the most up-to-date large [[Lightroom]] pictures folder.
        - Check that there is enough room on [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]] for the large picture folder. If not, move some stuff from [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]].
        - Copy the large pictures folder to [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]]
        - Use the large [[Lightroom]] catalog at:
C:\Users\davsa\Pictures\Lightroom\[[Lightroom Laptop]]atalog.lrcat.
Point it to the large pictures folder on the [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]]. 
        - Try to find and restore missing pictures from available backups.
        - Rearrange pictures in folders within [[Lightroom]] to create a more rational folder structure.
