- 15:06
    - I have been battling today with trying to establish a [[Lightroom]] folder on my C: drive. I have imported images from a catalog export I made for images from the beginning of 2020 and landed up with only previews on my C: drive. This is all very time consuming and quite frustrating. However, I must get this to work - there has been something that has caused me to lose images from my external drive, I believe it has to do with the computer occasionaly losing contact with the drive and the metadata sync not working as it should. I must create a robust solution, retrieve backups where I can and ensure that all of my pictures tthrough the years are in place and available in [[Lightroom]].
    - I am glad that I have the majority of my images on SmugMug, even though they are in JPG format. This will be a guide for me in trying to restore everything.
    - At the moment, my laptop will not recognize my external Seagate 4 TB drive, though luckily other computers will do so. So there may be a problem with the drive or perhaps between the laptop and the drive which might explain some of the strange behaviour I have been experiencing.  To be investigated.
- 16:28
    - I have now managed to import images for 2020 until 20200720 to [[Lightroom]], and sort them correctly into folders by date.  In many cases the editing i have done previously is missing and in some cases the images themselves are missing and need to be retrieved from backup. I have backup until our return from Cape Town in Stockholm, so I’ll begin there. I understand now that the previous imoprt was not an import as DNG, for some reason the DNG files that were imported (most of them, as I had previously converted all raw files) were sorted by date of file creation, not date of image capture. when I repeated the import using ”Copy as DNG”, the images were sorted correctly.
    - I conclude that my workflow going forward for handling photos in [[Lightroom]] must be rigorous, from import through processing to backup. I thought it was, but it wasn’t. I will write down the steps and make sure to follow them each time.
    - I need to start with an external disc drive that works reliably with my laptop, so that I canstart to restore my large [[Lightroom]] catalog.
- 16:43
    - So far today, my time has been my own, even if I have spent an unexpected amount of it battling with [[Lightroom]]. This is a pleasure and a luxury.
    - watched a short video by [[Nat Eliason]] about using [[Roam Research]]  for CRM. It’s realy full of possiblities. If i write in my daily notes that I had dinner with xxx, that note will of course turn up in the page for that person. This is defenitely worth pursuing.
    - [[Nat Eliason]] uses the concept [[Personal Knowledge Management]] which Imthink is good. I had previously used [[Productivity]] also for this, but PKM is better.
- Based on [[Nat Eliason]]'s demonstration of how he uses Text Expander in one of his course videos, I downloaded a similar utility for Windows, Breevy. It is something I have needed for some time.
