- 09:52
    - Woke up late today - nearly 9 am. This is the latest I have woken up for some time.
    - I am going to try a new idea to  populate the [[booklist database]] with the **Readdle documents** titles. Ref: "Tomorrow I will populate the [[booklist database]] with the **Readdle documents** titles. I will filter for mp4 files. I cannot think of a way to separate title and author, the entire filename will go into the title field and nothing into the author field. For each document, the ‘media’ field will be set to ‘Readdle’.".  For each book I will try to find a match between the **Readdle **file name string and title records in the [[booklist database]]. I there is a match, I will add the matched title and author with 'media' field set to 'Readdle'. I will use [[MySQL]] LIKE or REGEXP to find the match, as the strings will be similar but not identical. It will take some learning and some time to get it right, if it is even possible. [[Booklists]]
- 15:49
    - I have had my first work meeting in some weeks - they are working much more seriously in UK with supplier management than we at group are working with service provision. I spoke to Judith about this after the meeting, we agree that we have to make this discrepancy visible and actionable.
    - I have made some progress in looking for matches between the [[booklist database]] and the titles in the **readdle folders_20200727.txt** file. I can pass a string from the input file to an SQL select command with REGEXP matching, but not when the string contains citation characters. So I'm stuck there right now, I've spent a few hours on it and don't want to spend the rest of the day. If I strip the string of citation characters, I will not get a match unless there is a way of excluding citation characters from the REGEXP. I'm going to have to ransom the time I spend  on this project, because I am addicted to solving programming problems this task could easily become all-consuming. There is no real need for this problem to be solved. #[[Booklists]]
    - During the rest of the day, I'd like to think more about weekly review, as I feel that this will be a necessary part of managing my [[Personal Knowledge Management]] system.
- 19:47
    - I couldn't stick to my decision to stop working on the [[booklist database]]. After many trials and tribulations I have managed to add the **readdle folders_20200727.txt** records to the database. There were some few cases in which characters in the title made the record difficult to parse, but mostly it worked. The python script I used is ^^readdle document list lab_2.py^^. The next step is to extract the database to excel an from there perhaps to [[Notion]]. #[[Booklists]]
