- 08:58
    - I have set up an attribute table on a [[Habit-tracker]] page and made a template for it on a [[Templates]] page. It's ok functionally but not so good from a UX perspective. I'll try it for a few days and then decide if it will replace my [Habit Tracker](https://www.notion.so/8f02495b9af748d6a0989aea1512a579?v=68500f1cc4d24c79ab77a3ee9ed5c1ae) in [[Notion]]. The advantage of having the [[Habit-tracker]] in [[Roam Research]] is that the data entry is in my daily page, which I intend to edit daily anyway.
- 11:00
    - New project: #[[Photography]]
- I am considering building my booklist database in Python/MySQL that will be a fun project and enable me to create whatever storage structure I wish. #Booklists
- 15:50
    - Went shopping and listened in the car to a podcast with  rich Roll and [[Andrew Huberman]]. Very interesting discussion about motivation, addiction, statisfaction and their neurological mechanisms. I would like to read more about Huberman's work. He is at [Huberman Lab](http://www.hubermanlab.com/)
- 16:50
    - Have begun installing MySQL
- 19:22
    - I have installed SQL, created a database and adapted the Python program i wrote earlier to extract a list of books from [[Onyx]] via FTP (ftp-directory list.py) to populate the database. I am quite surprised at how easily it all went.
The next step is:  .....? #Booklists
- 20:01
    - I now want to continue populating the books database, this time using the files in Readdle documents on the [[Ipad]]. I have been trying to read in the textfile created by **Karen's directory printer** utility based on the Readdle documents folders mounted on the PC as a drive using WEBDAV. Python throws an error when reading the files, which seems to include unmappable characters. It would be good in any case to skip the step of using the directory printer utility and instead  to do the directory listing directly in Pyhon. #Booklists
- 21:18
    - After much consternation I was able to solve the character encoding issue ^^(text_file=codecs.open("readdle folders_20200726.txt","w","utf-8"),
print (os.path.join(root,filename).encode('utf8') )^^
So I can now use the python script **readdle_booklist.py** to traverse the Readdle folder structure (when mounted as a Windows drive using WEBDAV) and to create a folder and file listing. It does not however seem to be complete - the contents of some subfolders seem to be missing. It's a start, anyway. #Booklists
- 21:31
    - Spoke with [[Esther]], she is enjoying the Zoom meetings organised by the Jewish community, which seem to be of very high quality.
- -------------------------
