- Thinking of backup strategy, also glitches in connection with using an external  drive for  [[Calibre]] library catalog as well as for [[Lightroom]] pictures folder. The glitches have to do with Veracrypt losing contact with the drive when the laptop hibernates, which means that Calibre stops working. I have had similar problems with [[Lightroom]], though more seldom.
    - Considering using a smaller [[Lightroom]] pictures folder on the laptop SSD, with a separate catalog. Leaving the large pictures folder on the external drive, with a catalog for that. Once a month (or as necessary), I could export from the smaller catalog, restart [[Lightroom]] with the larger catalog and import to that. I have to find out if I can sync to Smugmug from the smaller as well as the larger catalog.
    - For [[Calibre]], I can create a smaller encrypted volume. The one I have now is 100 Gb, which is about double the size I need.
    - Actions:
        - {{{[[DONE]]}}}} Determine required size and create a smaller encrypted volume on C:
        - {{{[[DONE]]}}}} Copy [[Calibre]] library from G: to the new volume. 
        - {{{[[DONE]]}}}} Export pictures for June/July as catalog from present [[Lightroom]] catalog. 
        - {{{[[DONE]]}}}} Create new [[Lightroom]] catalog and import the above catalog to a Pictures folder on C:
        - {{{[[DONE]]}}}} Test sync with Smugmug for the new catalog. Check that sync still works with the larger catalog.
- [[Reading]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] by [[Anders Ericsson]] and Robert Pool. Many interesting insights.
- A thought about todos and actions in [[Notion contra Roam]]:
    - Actions to remain in Notion for the time being
    - **Methods** to be described in Roam. Methods are more detailed step by step instructions, documented in order to give me a chance to think through the steps and change the approach if necessary before putting a lot of time into something which will not work.  Some actions will be supported by a method description, most will not need this.
- Working through [[Nat Eliason]]s Roam course. Picking up useful insights. I have made some notes on my [[Onyx]] as I read [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]], imported them to  Roam via OneDrive using the **Solid Explorer** app on the Onyx to copy the book notes folder to OneDrive. Beginning to realise the power and potential of Roam as well as the [[Sönke Ahrens]] methodology for taking #[[Digital Garden]]
- Continuing my [[Touch Typing]] training using Typesy. I started with Typesy at about 13 wpm, and now at about 26 wpm (all according to Typesy). For the first time, I feel a fluidity and ease while [[Touch Typing]], at least when using my ergonomic keyboard.  Very encouraging. Next step is to get used to an ordinary keyboard.
- Listening to [[Pandemic Zen]] podcast with [[Paul Gerstein]], recommended by [[Joan Tollifson]]. Talks about experiencing sensation and also experiencing that there is sensation - which is the ground of everything.
- 15:46
    - Just returned from a #bathing outing to Simonstorp with [[Kerstin]] and Susanne. We ate lunch and bathed - relaxing and very pleasant.
- 21:18
    - Susanne has left for Gothenburg.
    - Spoke to [[Esther]] and then later [[Kenneth]] phoned me on Whatsapp an added [[Esther]] to the conversation.
    - Spent some time on [[Touch Typing]] training. It's gotten harder (longer words, capital letters, other characters), so my wpm has taken a hit. Still, I defenitely feel that I'm over the threshold of being able to touch type.
