- 18:39
    - #[[Booklists]] Today I was surprised to discover that the **QueryDB** app on my [[Ipad]] can communicate with the [[MySQL]] server on my laptop. I thought that I had tested this and concluded that I could not get it to work. The app needs to be purchased if I wish to use it, I have not yet decided if I want to.  I also discovered that there is a [[Calibre Companion]] app available on both [[Ipad]] and Android (i.e. [[Onyx]]). This makes it a little easier to browse the [[Calibre]] server on my laptop compared to using the browser as an interface. I will probably not need the **QueryDB** application, which does not include download functionality. To be considered. 
    - I was in town today shopping for beer and food, fetched a package for [[Amanda]] and returned some stuff which [[Samuel]] had left behind the last time he was at our place. He mentioned that he would be going camping with his family this weekend. Nice for them - the weather will be fine. 
    - [[Kerstin]] and I went #bathing in [[Simonstorp]], the weather being fine and warm. We had a very pleasant afternoon there. 
    - I see that the dates for the posts in my [[Habit-tracker]] are not in order and cannot be sorted manually. I googled this and found that it has been registered as a [[Roam Research]] bug on [[GitHub]], though quite recently. I lean towards using [[Roam Research]] for [[Habit-tracker]] and hoping that they get around to fixing this.
    - I checked [my roam-backup repository ](https://github.com/davsap32/roam-backup)on [[GitHub]], the backup script seems to be working, new snapshots are taken regularly (formatted, json and markdown export from [[Roam Research]]).
- 21:21
    - Spoke to [[Esther]].[[Joe]] has continued to have bouts of sciatic pain. She is concerned with the risk of the need for a hospital procedure if he should get worse. Last time this happened [[Joe]] could not sleep in his bed because he could not straighten his legs, so he had to sleep in his armchair for a month and [[Esther]] had to sleep on a matress beside him in the lounge. She is giving him panadol to dampen the inflammation, it seems to help.
    - Finished reading [[Art and Fear. Observations on the Perils (and Rewards) of Artmaking]]. Started reading [[The Motion of the Body Through Space]] by [[Lionel Shriver]].
