- 08:44
    - [[Josefine]]seems to be suffering under the strain of the difficulties in her relationship with [[Samuel]]. Yesterday when the family were here she seemed quite distraught. I was irritated with her because she was staring into her phone while [[Samuel]], [[Kerstin]] and I were preparing dinner. She probably had her reasons but she is generally too fascinated with her telephone and her life  on Facebook.
I was also not happy with [[Amanda]]who seemed to think that her help was not needed, it was enough to sit down to eat when dinner was ready.
[[Samuel]]had bought a new woodfired pizza oven from Ooni, so there was much ado about making the perfect Napolitan pizza. He had let the dough rise for four days, which became a problem because the dough was so elastic it was difficult to flatten. The pizzas were doughy and not very good.
    - {{[[TODO]]}} #[[Health]] I read an article on the internet about [[Box Breathing]]. [Link](https://neurohacker.com/breathing-technique-focus-mind). Something to follow up on. #[[Someday/Maybe]] 
    - Took a look at [[Joan Tollifson]]'s [web page](https://www.joantollifson.com/waking.html). Worth browsing. When I note interesting links in this way I wonder how I am ever going to get around to following up on all of them. It's not just a matter of browsing the website, that will be like a ripple on a lake. It's only useful if it leads to new practices and [[Habits]]. Insights don't really count if they don't result in lasting change.#[[Philosophy]]
    - I started reading [[Art and Fear. Observations on the Perils (and Rewards) of Artmaking]]. 
    - Here is a way to embed Google sheets in Roam. Perhaps the best way forward for my [[Habit-tracker]].
        - {{iframe: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-NyE3Zhx2b63mNdkztiXejUOgUz8pR6fVDHefv61FwQ/edit#gid=959030247}}
- 21:22
    - I found a [[roam research backup instruction]] on [Medium ](https://medium.com/@quinten_62777/a-step-by-step-guide-to-backing-up-your-roam-research-database-356107fe82ee)for backup of [[Roam Research]]database to Github. So I have set it up and it will run once an hour. I have no idea how to perform a restore if it should be necessary, or how much of the structure will be intact after a restore. 
    - Listened to a [track  ](https://youtu.be/Q6s_ZL8b3GE)of [[ÌFÉ]]. It's been a while since I heard new [[Music]]that I liked so much. 
    - [[Roam Research]] seems to have performance problems with long texts in which the paragraphs are not separate blocks. The page hangs, sometimes for minutes when trying to edit the text. So I will paste the highlights imported from [[Onyx]] as separate blocks. The easiest way to do this as far as I can see is to save the notes and highlights locally on [[Onyx]] and then (using [[Solid Explorer]]) send them to myself as an attached text file via Gmail. When the attached file is opened in Gmail, I can choose to open it in Google Docs. I can edit it there if necessary and then copy the text to the clipboard and from there paste to the relevant book page in [[Roam Research]]. [[Books]]
