- 07:37
    - Many/most of my tracked activities need to be moved forward repeatedly. I.e. the **do date** has to be changed because I did not get to  perform the activity in advance of it. This is not a problem unless I am delayed past the **due date**, which only exists for a small minority of tasks. I need a list of active tasks which are not date driven. 
        - I think that the [[Live List]] described in [[Anonym.s]] Roam tutorial course is what I need. 
{{[[youtube]]: https://youtu.be/3NzkbnxxNg0}}
    - Some activities that I am following in my [habit tracker](https://www.notion.so/8f02495b9af748d6a0989aea1512a579?v=68500f1cc4d24c79ab77a3ee9ed5c1ae) are not true [[Habits]] and could rather be followed up in the [[Live List]].
    - Yesterday I moved stuff around between different disk drives and copied a [[Lightroom]] which I have called [[Lightroom Desktop]] to the [[Seagate Backup Plus Drive]]. Now this catalog has to be cleaned up, images converted to **dng** and missing images found and added. During the process and regularly afterward the catalog has to be backed up. I also need a routine to add images from the [[Lightroom Laptop]] catalog (for which the images reside on my C: disk and will contain only recent images) to the [[Lightroom Desktop]] catalog on a regular basis. For all of this I will start a project #[[Lightroom Cleanup]].
- 15:44
    - Have just returned from a visit to the Norrköping art museum, which showed an exhibition by Cecilia Edefalk. Shopped on the way back for food. Spoke to [[Samuel]] who is excited about his new pizza oven which will arrive on Monday. We will   perhaps make and eat pizza together on Wednesday evening, after [[Samuel]]s and [[Josefine]]s therapy session which ends at 5 pm.
    - 
