- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- Author:: [[Anders Ericsson and Robert Pool]]
- Recommended by:: [[Nat Eliason]]
- # Highlights:
    - #[[E: Learning isn’t a way of reaching one’s potential but rather a way of developing it]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise  #[[Psychology]]
        -  learning is a way of creating abilities rather than of bringing people to the point where they can take advantage of their innate ones. In this new world it no longer makes sense to think of people as born with fixed reserves of potential; instead, potential is an expandable vessel, shaped by the various things we do throughout our lives. 
    - #[[E: Purposeful practice involves getting outside your comfort zone in a focused way.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #Motivation #[[Psychology]]
        - This requires clear goals, a plan for reaching those goals, and a way to monitor progress. There needs to be a way to maintain motivation. 
        - once you have practiced for a while and can see the results, the skill itself can become part of your motivation
    - #[[E: Regular training leads to changes in the parts of the brain that are challenged by the training.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise  #[[Psychology]]
        - The brain adapts to these challenges by rewiring itself in ways that increase its ability to carry out the functions required by the challenges. 
        -  I have found it is surprisingly rare to get clear evidence in any field that a person has reached some immutable limit on performance. Instead, I’ve found that people more often just give up and stop trying to improve
    - #[[E: the cognitive and physical changes caused by training require upkeep. Stop training, and they start to go away]] #[[Evergreens]]
    - #[[E: nobody develops extraordinary abilities without putting in tremendous amounts of practice]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice develops skills that other people have already figured out how to do and for which effective training techniques have been established]]. #[[Deliberate practice]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Motivation #[[Psychology]]
        - The practice regimen should be designed and overseen by a teacher or coach who is familiar with the abilities of expert performers and with how those abilities can best be developed. 
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice requires a student to constantly try things that are just beyond his or her current abilities. Thus it demands near-maximal effort, which is generally not enjoyable]]. #[[Evergreens]] #Expertise [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #[[Deliberate practice]] #[[Psychology]]
        - [[Deliberate practice]] involves well-defined, specific goals and often involves improving some aspect of the target performance; it is not aimed at some vague overall improvement. Once an overall goal has been set, a teacher or coach will develop a plan for making a series of small changes that will add up to the desired larger change. Improving some aspect of the target performance allows a performer to see that his or her performances have been improved by the training. 
        - [[Deliberate practice]] is deliberate, that is, it requires a person’s full attention and conscious actions. It isn’t enough to simply follow a teacher’s or coach’s directions. The student must concentrate on the specific goal for his or her practice activity so that adjustments can be made to control practice. 
        - [[Deliberate practice]] nearly always involves building or modifying previously acquired skills by focusing on particular aspects of those skills and working to improve them specifically; over time this step-by-step improvement will eventually lead to expert performance. Because of the way that new skills are built on top of existing skills, it is important for teachers to provide beginners with the correct fundamental skills in order to minimize the chances that the student will have to relearn those fundamental skills later when at a more advanced level.
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice involves feedback and modification of efforts in response to that feedback.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Deliberate practice]] #[[Psychology]]
        - Early in the training process much of the feedback will come from the teacher or coach, who will monitor progress, point out problems, and offer ways to address those problems. With time and experience students must learn to monitor themselves, spot mistakes, and adjust accordingly. Such self-monitoring requires effective mental representations
    - #[[E: Improving performance goes hand in hand with improving mental representations.]]  #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise  #[[Psychology]]
        - Mental representations make it possible to monitor how one is doing, both in practice and in actual performance. They show the right way to do something and allow one to notice when doing something wrong and to correct it. 
    - #[[E: the ideal is to find objective, reproducible measures that consistently distinguish the best from the rest]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Psychology]]
        - If that ideal is not possible, approximate it as well as you can
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice focuses solely on performance and how to improve it]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Deliberate practice]] #[[Psychology]]
        -  Even when the ultimate outcome is being able to do something—solve a particular type of math problem, say, or write a good essay—the traditional approach has been to provide information about the right way to proceed and then mostly rely on the student to apply that knowledge. .
    - #[[E: The hallmark of purposeful or Deliberate practice is that you try to do something you cannot do—that takes you out of your comfort zone.]] #[[Evergreens]][[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Deliberate practice]] #[[Psychology]]
        - You practice it over and over again, focusing on exactly how you are doing it, where you are falling short, and how you can get better.
    - #[[E: It is possible to progress beyond a plateau]]  #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Psychology]]
        - First, figure out exactly what is holding you back. What mistakes are you making, and when? Push yourself well outside of your comfort zone and see what breaks down first. 
        - Then design a practice technique aimed at improving that particular weakness. Once you’ve figured out what the problem is, you may be able to fix it yourself, or you may need to go to an experienced coach or teacher for suggestions. 
        - Pay attention to what happens when you practice; if you are not improving, you will need to try something else.
    - #[[E: Deliberate practice can be a lonely pursuit, but if you have a group of friends who are in the same positions you have a built-in support system]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Deliberate practice]]  #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: Break your long journey into a manageable series of goals and focus on them one at a time—perhaps even giving yourself a small reward each time you reach a goal.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise  #[[Psychology]]
        - set things up so that you are constantly seeing concrete signs of improvement, even if it is not always major improvement. 
    - #[[E: We can certainly acquire new skills as we age, but the specific way in which we acquire those skills changes as we get older.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[Peak_ Secrets from the New Science of Expertise]] #Expertise #[[Psychology]]
