- [[Andrew Huberman]]
    - Addiction is a progressive narrowing of the things that bring you pleasure
- [[James Clear]]
    - [[Atomic Habits: Tiny Changes, Remarkable Results]]
        - ON THE FIRST day of class, Jerry Uelsmann, a professor at the University of Florida, divided his film photography students into two groups. Everyone on the left side of the classroom, he explained, would be in the “quantity” group. They would be graded solely on the amount of work they produced. On the final day of class, he would tally the number of photos submitted by each student. One hundred photos would rate an A, ninety photos a B, eighty photos a C, and so on. Meanwhile, everyone on the right side of the room would be in the “quality” group. They would be graded only on the excellence of their work. They would only need to produce one photo during the semester, but to get an A, it had to be a nearly perfect image. At the end of the term, he was surprised to find that all the best photos were produced by the quantity group. During the semester, these students were busy taking photos, experimenting with composition and lighting, testing out various methods in the darkroom, and learning from their mistakes. In the process of creating hundreds of photos, they honed their skills. Meanwhile, the quality group sat around speculating about perfection. In the end, they had little to show for their efforts other than unverified theories and one mediocre photo #[[Photography]]
- [[Robert Salzman]]
    - [[July 29th, 2020]] #Philosophy
        - - Q: Hi robert - below is a question I would really appreciate you answering. If you do choose to answer I would appreciate if you kept it anonymous. Thanks 
- I came across your work 2 days ago and I'm hoping/would appreciate if you could offer some clarity on something I've been really struggling with for a fair few months now:
- You write "When one is not looking for any escape at all, but finds oneself participating in whatever thoughts, feelings, perceptions, etc. make up the constituents of this very moment, without any hope of things getting "better," including that one will "eventually" be "enlightened," then one is in the moment, and it is only in the moment that anything true, anything real, anything that is not escapism and fantasy, will be found. So whereas most of the "teaching" points elsewhere--points, I mean, to an improved condition that you will attain by following the teaching--I point only to what you are right now in this moment. The one who is reading these words is IT, and there is no other." 
- But you also write "Some people really have been traumatized—traumatized by rape and other forms of violence, by exposure to horrifying events, by victimization of various kinds, and all the rest. I am not saying that such a person can simply stop “identifying” and thus “snap out of it.” This not a question of willing or deciding, but of healing." 
- To me, the use of the word "healing" implies that it will be a process. A literal definition of the word process is "a series of actions or steps taken in order to achieve a particular end." In this context, an example we could use is "by partaking in a healing modality such as therapy, over a period of time, i will reach an end which is more satisfying than where I started from" - but this would (seem to?) contradict your original statement of not hoping for things to get better?
- Further on the questioner writes 
- "In reference to the river analogy, I have since been thinking of trauma almost like a toxic spill in a river. The poison becomes part of the river in the same way that trauma becomes part of one’s life experience. This toxic spill can be felt, and possibly cleaned up some through therapy or whatever method one uses to heal".
- This is how I view trauma - a series of events that have created an accumulation of unintegrated energies in the brain and body which lead to negative thoughts, beliefs and behaviours which ultimately result in suffering. Through various modalities such as somatic experiencing, qi going, meditation etc which have been clinically proven to reduce the effects of trauma, my suffering should reduce too. 
- I dont really care about non-dual realisation, or enlightenment, finding out "I" am impermant or feeling one with the universe. I just care about feeling safe in my body and not getting triggered in certain situations and being able to connect with people again so I can just live authentically and joyously. However, Part of me feels fake, or like I'm doing something wrong, because ultimately I am looking to therapy to make me feel better, which could be argued as me trying to run away from "what is", looking for a future where I'll be less traumatised and therefore suffering less. Theres the definite thought in me that once I've integrated this trauma and overcome the PTSD, then I'll be much happier, which I can see causes me suffering as it's a frantic and desperate attempt to resist what is, hoping for fulfillment in a "better" future moment (which may not even come). But I can also see how it literally is just true, and that its not possible to be happy when you have ptsd and everything in the moment feels dark and unsafe and this whole thing truly is just a process which will have to occur over a period of time in order for me to suffer less?
- I'd really appreciate if you could help me gain some clarity on this seeming dichotomy as it really is something I'm struggling with now.
- A: Hi. :)
- I think I can clear this up. A year ago in a boating accident, I broke two vertebrae in my lower back. I was in terrible pain and required surgery. After the surgery, there was a prolonged rehab that was also painful. Now, a year later, most of the pain is gone and I can walk well again. Being able to walk well again was the goal, and keeping my eye on that goal and striving for it was the way I dealt with the pain of rehab which requires pushing oneself to do more than feels comfortable and being pushed by the therapist. 
- The same is true of psychological ailments like PTSD. Treating them may be painful, but one undergoes that suffering by keeping the goal in mind—the one you clearly stated:
- “I just care about feeling safe in my body and not getting triggered in certain situations and being able to connect with people again so I can just live authentically and joyously.”
- I consider that a worthy goal and I wish you all the best in attaining it.  
- Now in your question, two different things are conflated and confused. One thing is making progress in ordinary life such as gradual healing or learning a language word by word. The other is coming to the understanding that no matter what conditions prevail in this moment, “myself” is always here and is never not here. 
- Since “myself” is always here, one does not need to work towards it, but just notice it here and now. In fact, even if one does not notice it, it will still be here. It’s just that noticing it can be a source of vitality and relaxation, which is why people try to “awaken,” which is only another word for noticing what already is and cannot not be.
- In my case, the goal was to regain the ability to walk well again. I hoped for that, but had no assurance of attaining it. On the other hand, noticing "myself" occurred for me long, long ago, and so while rehabbing, myself was not something I hoped to find in the future when perhaps my back had healed, the pain was lessened, and I was back on my feet, as fortunately, I am now. No. Myself was that which is always here in the present regardless of conditions. 
- Myself is always here. It is what we are. Myself is this aliveness. The circumstances of life may be better or worse, but myself is always here. You do not need anything to be different to be myself. There is no getting away from myself. It’s what we are.
- I cited a Zen story in Depending On No-Thing that speaks to this quite well. I will quote it here:
- Layman Pang approached a teacher asking to be shown his true
- self. The teacher said nothing but just sat silently. Finally, tired of
- waiting, Pang got up and walked towards the door. Just as he opened
- the door, the teacher called out, “Oh, Layman Pang.”
- “Yes?” replied Pang.
- “That’s it,” said the teacher.
- Similar to a broken back, PTSD is an ailment, an illness. It has treatments and can be mitigated or cured, but “myself” cannot be mitigated or cured. It just is—just exists—without anyone trying or needing to do anything about it. It cannot be improved or changed by any means at all, but only noticed, and It is there whether noticed or not.
- The point of my comment that you quoted was a critique of the silly spiritual teaching that makes people feel that there is some future “improved” myself that they will attain through practices, attending satsangs, prayer, fasting, chanting, doing good works, etc. That, I say, is only a distraction. To see “myself” requires nothing but noticing, and that is instantaneous, not a matter of time.
- If this is still not clear, please feel free to say so.
- I wish you well.

- [[Huang Po]] #Philosophy
    - -- via [[Joan Tollifson]]
        - "Your true nature is something never lost you even in moments of delusion, nor is it gained at the moment of enlightenment...it depends on nothing and is attached to nothing…
        - "Above all, have no longing to become a future Buddha; your sole concern should be, as thought succeeds thought, to avoid clinging to any of them."
- [[Pema Chodron]] #Philosophy
When people start to meditate or to work with any kind of spiritual discipline, they often think that somehow they’re going to improve, which is a sort of subtle aggression…
- But…meditation practice isn’t about trying to throw ourselves away and become something better. It’s about befriending who we are already… that’s what we study, that’s what we come to know with tremendous curiosity and interest…
- One of the main discoveries of meditation is seeing how we continually run away from the present moment, how we avoid being here just as we are. That’s not considered to be a problem; the point is to see it…
- — Pema Chodron, from The Wisdom of No Escape

- [[Niklas Rådström]] Vi förfogar inte över våra liv. Vi kan tänka att vi skapar våra liv, skapar våra karriärer, skapar våra relationer. Men i slutändan är vi utlämnade åt ett nyckfullt öde. Och det nyckfulla ödet säger OSs samtidigt att livet är en gåva som vi måste ta emot på det sätt som vi handskas med gåvor: nämligen med en form av ödmjukhet. 
