- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- Author:: [[Rick Hanson]]
- Recommended by:: [[Kenneth]]
- Comments:
- Notes:
- Highlights:
    - #[[E: When we treat others with respect and caring, the best in them usually comes out. The same happens if we treat ourselves in the same way.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Compassion [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - Self-[[Compassion]] makes a person more resilient, more able to bounce back. It lowers self-criticism and builds up self-worth, helping you to be more ambitious and successful, not complacent and lazy. In [[Compassion]] for your own pain is a sense of common humanity: we all suffer, we all face disease and death, we all lose others we love. Everyone is fragile
        - [[Compassion]] for yourself is fundamental, since if you don’t care how you feel and want to do something about it, it’s hard to make an effort to become happier and more resilient
        - Accepting what’s inside yourself gives you more influence over it, not less
        - [[Compassion]] involves warmhearted concern for suffering and the desire to relieve it if you can. [[Compassion]] can be given both to others and to yourself.
        - Accepting things as they are—including yourself—helps you deal with them more effectively, and with less resistance and stress.
        - To sustain [[Compassion]], we need equanimity, a kind of inner shock absorber between the core of your being and whatever is passing through awareness. Some experiences are first darts, such as feeling the suffering of others. With equanimity, these don’t become second darts that push you into the Reactive red zone
        - People often think they need to be hard on themselves to stay motivated, but the opposite is generally true.
        - Humans are naturally altruistic. Most generosity does not involve money. Appreciating yourself as a giver helps you keep giving.
            - To give [[Compassion]] without being overwhelmed by the suffering of others, we need equanimity, which can be cultivated by seeing suffering in its larger context, taking action as best you can, and recognizing what you have already done. 
            - There are two ways to give forgiveness. 
                - Without offering someone a full pardon, you can still disentangle yourself from resentment by considering that person’s perspective, deliberately choosing to forgive, and letting go of ill will. 
                - To give a full pardon, think about the person who wronged you as a whole human being with many parts and deep down a good heart. Also have [[Compassion]], recognize remorse, and see whatever happened as an eddy in a vast river of causes. 
                - To give yourself a full pardon, take responsibility for whatever you did, feel appropriateremorse, make amends, ask for forgiveness, and actively forgive yourself. 
    - #[[E:We sort people into two groups. We tend to cooperate with “us” but fear and attack “them.”]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - It is generous to expand the circle of us to include them, and it is necessary for all of us to live together in peace. 
        - As you grow inner strengths such as [[Compassion]] and courage, you develop resilient well-being. This gives you more that you can give to others, and then they have more to give you, in a beautiful upward spiral.
    - #[[E: The key to growing any psychological resource, is to have repeated experiences of it that get turned into lasting changes in neural structure or function.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Habits [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]] #Compassion
    - #[[E: Challenges can be met in responsive mode or reactive mode ]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]] #[[Responsive mode]] #[[Reactive mode]]
        - There is a fundamental difference between facing challenges while experiencing that your needs are being sufficiently met ([[Responsive mode]]), and facing challenges while experiencing that your needs are not being met.  ([[Reactive mode]])
        - When we experience that needs are sufficiently met, there is a sense of fullness and balance. The body and the mind default to their resting state, which I call the [[Responsive mode]], or “green zone.” The body conserves its resources, refuels and repairs itself, and recovers from stress. In the mind, there is a sense of peace, contentment, and love—broad, umbrella terms related to our needs for safety, satisfaction, and connection. This is embodied well-being. On the other hand, when we experience that a need is unmet, there is a sense of deficit and disturbance: something missing, something wrong. The body and the mind are agitated out of their resting state into the [[Reactive mode]], or “red zone.” The body fires up into fight, flight, or freeze reactions, shaking up its immune, hormonal, cardiovascular, and digestive systems. In the mind, there is a sense of fear, frustration, and hurt—umbrella terms related to our needs for safety, satisfaction, and connection. This is stress, distress, and dysfunction
        - The [[Reactive mode]] tears us down, while the [[Responsive mode]] builds us up. Adversity is certainly an opportunity to develop resilience, stress-hardiness, and even post-traumatic growth. But for a person to grow through adversity, there must also be Responsive resources present such as determination and sense of purpose
        - Reactive experiences make us more brittle and fragile over time, while Responsive experiences tend to make us more resilient.
        - The [[Responsive mode]] is our home base, a healthy equilibrium of body and mind. It’s the essence of well-being and the basis of sustained resilience. But we’re easily driven from that home and into the red zone. Then, it’s easy to get stuck there due to the negativity bias and negative rumination, in a kind of chronic inner homelessness.
        - When parents and other caregivers are usually attuned, responsive, loving, and skillful—reliably delivering a “good enough” stream of social supplies—children are likely to become securely attached. They have a feeling of being loved and worthy, as well as strong capacities to soothe and regulate themselves. People with such an internalized secure base are able to explore the world, tolerate separations, and recover from hurt and disappointment. They’re comfortable saying how they feel and what they want, since they’ve had many experiences in which this went reasonably well. They don’t cling to other people or push them away. Deep down, they have a core sense of connection needs met, and their Attaching system is centered in the [[Responsive mode]]. They are confident. On the other hand, when children experience their caregivers as frequently unavailable, insensitive, cold, rejecting, punishing, or abusive, then they are likely to become insecurely attachedtached. (There are three types of insecure attachment—avoidant, ambivalent, and disorganized—and my summary here won’t explore the distinctions among them.) People with this attachment style tend to feel inadequate and unworthy, and unsure if they truly matter to others. Given their personal history, they have doubts about others being reliably attentive, supportive, and trustworthy. Consequently, they tend either to keep their distance and not expect much or to cling to other people. Having taken in relatively little caring from others, they’re less able to be [[Compassion]]ate toward themselves; meanwhile, they’ve internalized put-downs and rejections, and tend to be harshly self-critical. As a result, they’re less resilient, less able to cope with stress and setbacks. Deep down, connection needs do not feel sufficiently met, and they’re prone to entering the [[Reactive mode]] in their relationships.
    - #[[E: We’re designed to over-learn from bad experiences while under-learning from good ones.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - The negativity bias made sense for survival over millions of years of evolution, but today it’s a kind of universal learning disability in a brain designed for peak performance under Stone Age conditions 
        - Our ancestors needed to gain “carrots” such as food and sex, and to escape from “sticks” such as predators and aggression inside or between their bands. Both are important, but sticks usually have more urgency and impact for survival. Back on the Serengeti plains, if you failed to get a carrot, you’d still have a chance to get another one, but if you failed to avoid a stick—whack, no more carrots forever. As a result, the brain naturally and routinely
            - 1. Scans for bad news out in the world and inside the body and mind
            - 2. Focuses tightly on it, losing sight of the big picture 
            - 3. Overreacts to it 
            - 4. Fast-tracks the experience into emotional, somatic, and social memory 
            - 5. Becomes sensitized through repeated doses of the stress hormone cortisol, so it becomes even more reactive to negative experiences—which bathe the brain in even more cortisol, creating a vicious cycle
        - The effects of this bias are worsened by the recent evolution of neural networks in the midline of the cortex that enable mental time travel: reflecting on the past and planning for the future. These networks also enable negative rumination. Unlike our animal cousins, who learn from their close calls but don’t obsess about them, we tend to keep going over worries, resentments, and self-criticism: “So many things could go wrong.” “How dare they treat me that way?” “I am such an idiot!” The thoughts and feelings we have while ruminating change the brain just as other negative experiences do. Running these loops repeatedly is like running laps in soft dirt, deepening the track each time we go around it—which makes it easier to fall into negative rumination in the future.
    - #[[E: Your brain is shaped by your experiences, which are shaped by what you attend to]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - {{embed: ((awFVrGJ9I))}}
        - {{embed: ((tIDcKz_QG))}}
        - With mindfulness, you can rest your attention on experiences of psychological resources such as [[Compassion]] and gratitude, and hardwire them into your nervous system. 
        - There are three major ways to relate to and engage the mind usefully: 
            - be with it, 
            - decrease what is painful and harmful, 
            - increase what is enjoyable and beneficial. • 
    - #[[E: People have three primary needs: Safety, Satisfaction and Connection]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - Safety: being on your own side, determination, grit, sense of agency, feeling protected, clarity about threats, feeling all right right now, calm, relaxation, peace 
        - Satisfaction: gratitude, gladness, pleasure, accomplishment, clarity about goals, enthusiasm, passion, motivation, aspiration, feeling of enough-ness already, contentment
        - "#[[E:Our expectations determine our satisfaction]]. #[[Evergreens]] [[Atomic Habits: Tiny Changes, Remarkable Results]] #[[Psychology]]"
        - Connection: [[Compassion]] for others and oneself, empathy, kindness, self-worth, skillful assertiveness, forgiveness, generosity, love
        - We have three basic needs—safety, satisfaction, and connection—that we manage by avoiding harms, approaching rewards, and attaching to others. These needs and the ways we meet them are loosely related, respectively, to the reptilian brain stem, mammalian subcortex, and primate/human neocortex. 
        - It’s as if we each have an inner lizard freezing or fleeing from danger, a mouse sniffing about for cheese, and a monkey looking for its tribe
        - Well-being comes from meeting our needs, not denying them. When we experience that our needs are sufficiently met, the body and mind enter the “green zone” [[Responsive mode]], and there is a sense of peace, contentment, and love. When needs feel unmet, we’re disturbed into the fight-flight-freeze “red zone” [[Reactive mode]], and there is a sense of fear, frustration, and hurt.  The [[Responsive mode]] is our home base, but we’re easily driven from home and prone to getting stuck in the red zone due to the brain’s negativity bias, which makes it like Velcro for bad experiences but Teflon for good ones. To stay in the green zone, take in experiences of your needs being met, which will grow inner resources. Then you can handle larger and larger challenges with resilient well-being
    - #[[E: Agency is the sense of being a cause rather than an effect]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - With agency, you are active rather than passive, taking initiative and directing your life rather than being swept along. Agency is central to grit, since without it a person can’t mobilize other internal resources for coping. If you’ve been knocked down by life, agency is the first thing you draw on to get up off the floor.
        - We are very susceptible to acquiring learned helplessness through experiences of powerlessness, immobilization, and defeat.
        - [[Viktor Frankl]] We who lived in concentration camps can remember the men who walked through the huts comforting others, giving away their last piece of bread. They may have been few in number, but they offer sufficient proof that everything can be takenfrom a man but one thing: the last of the human freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way. #Quotes
    - #[[E: Many of us go through life insisting, metaphorically speaking, that seeds give us apples. But then we lock onto particular results, and get frustrated and self-critical if they don’t happen]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - The truth is, ten thousand causes upstream of this moment are bringing it into being, and most of them are beyond anyone’s control
        - Challenging things happen to every person, and determination is the steadfast fortitude we draw on to endure, cope with, and survive them
        - Resolve is aimed toward a goal. Otherwise it’s like having a car with a big engine but no destination
        - For most people, the inner critic goes way overboard, throwing second dart after second dart of scolding, shaming, nit-picking, and faultfinding. It’s big and powerful, while the inner nurturer is small and ineffective, which wears down mood, self-worth, and resilience
        - Patience might sound like a modest virtue, but it’s the essence of two primary factors in mental health and worldly success. 
            - The first is delay of gratification, the willingness to put off immediate rewards for the sake of a greater future reward. 
            - The second is distress tolerance, the capacity to endure a painful experience without making a bad thing worse, such as “self-medicating” with overeating or alcohol.
    - #[[E: The pursuit of happiness can push it out of reach]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Philosophy [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - We seek to feel good in the future, but this is often stressful in the present. . With gratitude, we feel good already. 
        - Giving thanks for what is beneficial does not prevent us from seeing what is harmful. In fact, the ways that thankfulness supports physical and mental health make us more resilient and more able to deal with challenges. 
        - Pleasure is easy to dismiss, but it is a rapid way to lower stress or to disengage from an upset. Wholesome pleasures crowd out unwholesome ones. The more you feel already full of pleasure, the less you’ll strain for it outside yourself. 
        - Because of the negativity bias, we notice when we fail to reach a goal while missing the fact that meanwhile we’re succeeding at hundreds of other goals. Look for opportunities to feel successful many times each day. Take in these experiences and use them to compensate for and heal feelings of failure or inadequacy. 
        - If you can be happy about the happiness of others, you can find a lasting happiness.
    - #[[E: There is a two-step process of initial and secondary reactions to experiences.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] #Philosophy [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - This was described as the first and second dart by the Buddha.
        - The first dart is unavoidable physical or emotional discomfort and pain: a headache, the cramping of stomach flu, the sadness at losing a friend, the shock at being unfairly attacked in a meeting at work. 
        - The second dart is the one we throw ourselves, adding unnecessary reactions to the conditions of life and its occasional first darts. For example, second darts include getting really worried about a minor misunderstanding with another person, brooding about being slighted, and holding on to resentments and grudges. Second darts are the source of so much human suffering, especially in our relationships. They make us more upset than we need to be and cause us to do things we regret later.
    - #[[E: Humans evolved to be dependent upon each other.]]  #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - The priority that people place on what others think about them creates our vulnerability to embarrassment, hurt, and shame, but it is also what enables altruism. Similarly, our vulnerabilities to loneliness, envy, resentment, and indignation are necessary features of the deeply social human nature that also gives us friendship, [[Compassion]], love, and justice
    - #[[E: Two branches of the nervous system work together to keep us on an even keel.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - The “rest-and-digest” parasympathetic branch settles us down, while the “fight-or-flight” sympathetic branch revs us up.  
        - The pace of modern life fosters chronic sympathetic activation, which is stressful for your body, mind, and relationships. So look for regular opportunities to engage the parasympathetic nervous system, such as relaxation or meditation. 
        - We react to imaginary or exaggerated threats to prevent ever missing a real one. It’s a kind of “paper tiger paranoia” that creates needless anxiety plus makes it harder to see and cope with actual threats. 
            - Anger puts a lot of wear and tear on your body and mind, and it feeds conflicts with others. You can be powerful and assertive without being angry.  Anger comes in two stages: the priming and the trigger. Try to act early to reduce the priming and respond to the trigger in proportion to it. Be careful about self-righteousness and faultfinding, and slow down interactions to prevent an “amygdala hijack.”
        - The sympathetic nervous system brings energy and passion. But without positive emotions such as happiness and love, sympathetic activation draws us into red zone stress. When you speed up, watch out for negative emotions, and keep looking for ways to experience positive ones. 
        - The brain has a fundamental motivational circuit based on dopamine activity. There are natural variations in the quantity of dopamine receptors that individuals have. People with fewer receptors tend to need more rewards to stay motivated. •  Train this circuit by increasing the association between rewards and whatever you’d like to motivate yourself toward. Increase the amount of rewards, your attention on them, and your sensitivity to them.   
    - #[[E: The shift from liking to wanting marks the tipping point from the green zone to the red zone]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - From an underlying feeling of fullness and balance to a sense of something lacking, something wrong
        - Liking is distinct from wanting. Wanting comes with a sense of insistence, drivenness, or compulsion that is stressful and can lead to harmful behaviors. 
        - Liking without wanting is heaven, but wanting without liking is hell. When you like something without wanting it, you’re able to enjoy it fully. There is no tension around the experience, no holding on to it or fearing when it will end. In the moment, there is freedom from want. Then your beneficial experiences tend to last longer and feel more rewarding.
        - Anticipated rewards are frequently disappointing. Even the best experiences are impermanent. These two facts can create a chronic sense that something is missing, something is wanting. This pushes us to keep seeking the next shiny object, the next experience.
        - Even when you’re feeling at ease, with no problem to solve and no need for anything else, see if you can notice a kind of auto-wanting in the back of your mind: an ongoing scanning for something new to want even when you are already satisfied. This tendency may have evolved to prod our ancestors into foraging and sniffing about for new opportunities. But embedded in this auto-wanting is also an underlying feeling of restlessness and a subtle sense that the moment, every moment, is never fully satisfactory as it is. This hunger for the next thing pulls us away from appreciating what we have and toward wanting what we lack. It’s poignant that we habitually seek satisfaction with a mindset shaded with dissatisfaction, which holds complete contentment always just out of reach.
    - #[[E: Resilience is more than bouncing back from adversity. People who are resilient keep pursuing their goals in the face of challenges]]. #[[Evergreens]]  #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
        - Learning how to regulate your brain’s motivational machinery is a key aspect of resilience. 
    - #[[E: Intimacy rests on a foundation of personal autonomy, empathy, compassion and kindness, and unilateral virtue in relationships]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]] #Intimacy #Compassion
        - Empathy is tuning into and understanding other people. When you feel grounded as “me,” you’re able to be empathic without getting flooded or overwhelmed
        - Consider how rare it is for other people to stay present and attentive to you for several minutes in a row—and how good it feels when they do.
        - Moral judgment is separate from [[Compassion]]. We can have [[Compassion]] for suffering itself even when it’s occurring in people who are the source of their own suffering or who have harmed others. If there was [[Compassion]] only for the people we liked, the world would be a much colder and crueler place.
        - Unilateral virtue is not about knuckling under to anyone or being a doormat. You still have [[Compassion]] for yourself, speak up for your needs, and observe what the other person does over time. This is your best-odds strategy for encouraging others to treat you well. As you address what they want and step out of repetitive quarrels, people usually become more receptive and reasonable. And having taken care of your side of the street, you’re in a stronger position to ask them to take care of theirs.
        - Degrees of intimacy are present in all relationships, not just romantic ones. 
        - A strong “me” in the midst of “we” fosters intimacy. This sense of personal autonomy is supported by establishing good boundaries and asserting your individuality inside your mind.
        - Empathy is necessary for intimacy. In the brain, different neural networks help us to tune into the thoughts, emotions, and actions of others. You can develop more empathy inside yourself, and you can tap more of that empathy when you interact with others.
        - [[Compassion]] and kindness can be strengthened inside you like any other psychological resource. Recognize suffering, see our common humanity, separate approval from [[Compassion]], and deliberately internalize warmhearted caring toward others. 
        - Focusing on the faults of others creates deadlocks and resentment. It’s better to practice unilateral virtue: focusing on your own responsibilities and personal code of conduct no matter what others do. This brings the “bliss of blamelessness,” reduces conflicts, and increases the odds that others will treat you well.
    - #[[E: People often swerve away from their dreams to avoid risking experiences they dread.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
    - Buddha: There are those who do not realize that one day we all must die, but those who do realize this, settle their quarrels. #Quotes [[Resilient: How to Grow an Unshakable Core of Calm, Strength, and Happiness]]
