- Author:: [[Dani Shapiro]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books  #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: The page is your mirror. What happens inside you is reflected back]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - You come face-to-face with your own resistance, lack of balance, self-loathing, and insatiable ego—and also with your singular vision, guts, and fortitude. No matter what you’ve achieved the day before, you begin each day at the bottom of the mountain. Isn’t this true for most of us? A surgeon about to perform a difficult operation is at the bottom of the mountain. 
    - #[[E: Sit down every day at around the same time and put yourself in the path of inspiration]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - If I don’t sit down, if I’m not there working, then inspiration will pass right by me, 
        - In the yoga and meditation practices that have become integral to my writing day, I rarely feel like unrolling my mat. There’s always something more pressing to do. Searching online for that perfect black leather jacket on sale, for instance. But I know that if I just begin the motions, the ritual, of setting up my practice, I will probably overcome the pull of high fashion, or whatever the day’s distraction happens to be. If I light a fire in the fireplace, then the lavender-scented candle; if I get my music set up and unroll my mat; if I put the crystals on the floor that have become part of my routine, then the next thing I know, I’m in a sun salutation, and an hour goes by. I’m in lotus position, counting my breath. I haven’t waited to be in the mood. I’ve just gone ahead and done it anyway, because that’s what I’ve been doing for years now. 
    - #[[E: Let go of every should or shouldn’t running through your mind when you start]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - Be willing to stand at the base of a new mountain, and with humility and grace, bow to it. Allow yourself to understand that it’s bigger than you, or anything you can possibly imagine. You’re not sure of the path. You’re not even sure where the next step will take you. When you begin, whisper to yourself: I don’t know. 
    - #[[E: Try to remember that to sit down and write is a gift. That if you do not seize this day, it will be lost]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - I think of writers I admire who are no longer living. I’m aware that the simple fact of being here creates a kind of responsibility, even a moral one, to get to work. 
    - #[[E: Write to one specific reader at a time]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - My audience of one, over the years, has changed. 
    - #[[E: The only reason to be a writer is because you have to]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
    - #[[E: Not-knowing is at the heart of the creative endeavor]] #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - I always think I should know more. That I need more information. That I should outline, perhaps. Or do some research. But really, I need to remind myself that this not-knowing is at the heart of the creative endeavor. Paradoxically, the not-knowing is often what creates the energy, portent, and momentum in the piece of work itself. One of the truest pleasures for the writer alone in a room is when our characters surprise us by doing something unexpected. And so, as we are beginning, the most liberating thing we can do for ourselves is to exist in this state of heightened interest. It’s a bit like standing at the edge of a playground, watching our children make their way in the world. What will they do next? What has happened to them? Do you really want to go over there? Who’s the bully in the sandbox? It requires faith in the process. The imagination has its own coherence. Our first draft will lead us. There’s always time for thinking and shaping and restructuring later, after we’ve allowed something previously hidden to emerge on the page. 
    - #[[E: We have to learn to be kind to ourselves]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - What we’re doing isn’t easy. We have chosen to spend the better part of our lives in solitude, wrestling with our deepest thoughts and obsessions and concerns. We unleash the beast of memory; we peer into Pandora’s box. We do all this in the spirit of faith and exploration, with no guarantee that what we produce will be worthwhile. We don’t call in sick. We don’t take mental health days. We don’t get two weeks paid vacation, or summer Fridays, or holiday weekends. Often, we are out of step with the tempo of those around us. 
    - #[[E: In order to create a world on the page, you need to push away from the world around you. You must forget its expectations and constraints]]
        - Remember, as you begin, that you are in a remote and exotic place—the literary equivalent of far eastern Bhutan. It’s a place where no one can find you. Where anything is possible. Where, for a time, you are free, liberated from the expectations and ideas of others. You are trekking, and the vistas are infinite. This freedom is necessary whether you’re working on your first book or your tenth. . 
    - #Quotes “You climb a long ladder until you can see over the roof, or over the clouds. You are writing a book. You watch your shod feet step on each round rung, one at a time; you do not hurry and do not rest.” [[Annie Dillard]] #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
    - #Quotes “Fiction is nothing less than the subtlest instrument for self-examination and self-display that mankind has invented.” [[John Updike]].#Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
    - #[[E: Writing requires a daily summoning of stamina, optimism, discipline, and hope]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - We are in the ocean. We are constructing the very thing that holds us. We have nothing to latch on to. If beginnings and ends are shorelines, middles are where we dive deep, where we patch holes, where we risk drowning. This is no time for half measures. We must meet the page with everything we’ve got. 
    - #[[E: We all need outside readers. Each one of us benefits from a fresh set of eyes]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - But how do we know when we’ve reached this point? Some writers only show their work when they’ve finished multiple drafts of it. Others share on a regular basis with a trusted reader. 
    - #[[E: You have to establish a working routine for yourself, a rhythm]] #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - Some writers count words. Others fill a certain number of pages, longhand, have a set number of hours they spend at their desk. It doesn’t matter what the deal is that you strike with yourself, as long as you keep up your end of it. I prefer to think of it as rhythm rather than discipline. 
    - #[[E: Writing is hard. We resist, we procrastinate, we veer off course. But we have this tool, this ability to begin again]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - The real skill in meditation is simply noticing that the mind has wandered. So liberating, this idea that we can start over at any time, a thousand times a day if need be. I see many parallels between the practices of meditation and writing but none are more powerful than this. 
    - #[[E: Outlines are not necessarily helpful]] #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - When it comes to creative writing, outlines are not necessarily helpful. If we know too much about where we’re going, the work will suffer along the way. It will convulse and die before our eyes. We’ll end up dragging along a corpse until finally, exhausted, we just give up. Outlines offer us an illusion that we are in control, that we know where we’re going. And while this may be comforting, it is also antithetical to the process of making work that lives and breathes. If we are painting by numbers, how can we give birth to something new? 
        - If you are creating something real, structure will reveal itself to you eventually. Look—there’s the vista. You lay the bricks. Moments connect. History and heritage ripple through the present. A voice emerges like a strain of music. And then—through the fog—a shape. It may not be what you expected. It may not even be what you hoped for. But it will be yours. 
    - #Quotes  Creative writing is “the strict discipline of forcing oneself to work steadfastly along the nerve of one’s own most intimate sensitivity” [[Anne Truitt]] #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
    - #[[E: There is a vitality, a life force, a quickening that is translated through you into action]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - Because there is only one of you in all time, this expression is unique. If you block it, it will never exist through any other medium and be lost. The world will not hear it. It is not your business to determine how good it is; nor how valuable it is; nor how it compares with other expressions. It is your business to keep it yours, clearly and directly, to keep the channel open. You do not even need to believe in yourself or your work. You have to keep open and aware directly to the urges that motivate you. Keep the channel open. No artist is pleased. There is no satisfaction whatever at any time. There is only a queer, divine dissatisfaction, a blessed unrest that keeps us marching and makes us more alive than the others. 
    - #[[E: There is tremendous creative freedom to be found in letting go of our opinions of our work]], #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - Consider the possibility that you may not be not your own best critic. 
    - #[[E: We develop our sensitivity in order to bear witness to what is]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - It is the job of the writer to say, look at that. To point. To shine a light. But it isn’t that which is already bright and beckoning that needs our attention. Our tender hopes and dreams, our joy, frailty, grief, fear, longing, desire—every human being is a landscape. The empathic imagination glimpses the woman working the cash register at a convenience store, the man coming out of the bathroom at the truck stop, the mother chasing her toddler up and down the aisle of the airplane, and knows what it sees. Look at that. This human catastrophe, this accumulation of ordinary blessings, of unbearable losses. And still, a ray of sunlight, a woman doing the wash, a carcass of beef. The life that holds us. The life we know. 
    - #[[E: When we speak of a character’s inner life, we are talking about what is thought but left unsaid]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - What motivates action but remains hidden—perhaps even from the character herself. Perhaps even—quite possibly even—from the writer herself, at least when first discovering the story on the page. We don’t know our characters all that well when we start out. Even if we’ve compiled complete dossiers, even if we’ve written whole family trees, still, we discover our characters’ obsessions, their secret shame, their hidden guilt, their base desires, their most private longings, as we go along. We can’t possibly know that when we begin. And so it’s in the middle—just as is true of our own lives—that we make some of our most stirring discoveries. 
    - #[[E: All of life can be summed up in these three words: not always so]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]] [[Jack Kornfield]]
        - We plan on our day going in a certain direction? Not always so. We expect a friend or relative to behave the way they always have? Not always so. There is the pattern, and then there is the dropped stitch that disrupts the pattern, making it all the more complex and interesting. Stories are about the dropped stitch. About what happens when the pattern breaks. Though there is a certain poetry in the rhythm of the everyday, it is most often a shift, a moment of not-always-so, that ends up being the story. Why is this moment different? What has changed? And why now? We would do well to ask ourselves these questions when we’re at work. This shift can be a massive one (here I am thinking of the dystopian novel in which the very rhythms of the universe are called into question: the sun no longer predictably rises in the east or sets in the west; a meteor is hurling toward earth; the oceans are rising), or it can be as subtle and internal as the Steven Millhauser story, “Getting Closer,” in which a nine-year-old boy on vacation with his family feels, for the first time, a searing, wordless awareness of time’s passage. 
    - #[[E: The key to any composition is to write against an edge, a frame]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - Put a frame around something, anything—the frame of cancer, say, around a life, and you’ve already gotten somewhere, without even willing it.” But wait—what does this mean? Haven’t I been pretty insistent about the idea that structure emerges from the writing itself? So what’s up with this frame business? Am I contradicting myself? Well, not exactly! I’d like to respond. And, while I’m at it, I’m so pleased that you’ve been paying attention. But a frame isn’t structure. Structure happens within the frame, but it isn’t the frame. A frame keeps you in line. It lets you know when you’ve strayed from your story. A frame, writing against an edge, to use Cody’s phrase, can be enormously helpful in giving you clarity about your particular corner of the crazy-quilt. Your patch of land. Your precise and unique bit of geography. Your world. 
    - #[[E: The page - if you spend your life in deep engagement with it—will force you to surrender your skepticism]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - It will keep you open and undefended. It doesn’t promise comfort. But if you hurl yourself at it, give it everything you’ve got, if you wake up each morning—bruised, bloody, aching—ready to throw yourself at it again, I’ll make you a promise: it will keep you alive to what you see and hear and taste and touch. To what you feel. And that’s what we want—isn’t it? The page will force you to expand your capacity—as if that capacity were a physical thing, a muscle, a ligament you can stretch and extend with regular use—for astonishment. 
    - #[[E: We cannot afford to walk sightless among miracles. Nor can we protect ourselves from suffering]]. #Evergreens #[[Creative writing]] [[Still Writing: The Perils and Pleasures of a Creative Life]]
        - We do work that thrusts us into the pulsing heart of this world, whether or not we’re in the mood, whether or not it’s difficult or painful or we’d prefer to avert our eyes. When I think of the wisest people I know, they share one defining trait: curiosity. They turn away from the minutiae of their lives—and focus on the world around them. They are motivated by a desire to explore the unfamiliar. They are drawn toward what they don’t understand. They enjoy surprise. Some of these people are seventy, eighty, close to ninety years old, but they remind me of my son and his friend on the day I sprung them from camp. Courting astonishment. Seeking breathless wonder. 
