- Author:: [[johnathanbi.com]]
- URL:: https://johnathanbi.com/writings/0u1avudmqgop9d3cueia0kemua3x9q
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Articles #Inbox #Readwise
- ### Highlights first synced by #Readwise [[September 26th, 2020]]
    - Progressive-summaries takes the reader from text to synthesis. This strategy is so effective at helping us understand a work for two main reasons.

First, it recognizes that passively reading the text only produces a superficial and fleeting understanding. Actively synthesizing the core arguments, on the other hand, provides you with a deeper understanding in the same way that reproducing a proof helps you better grasp a mathematical theorem.

This is because we have a lower tolerance for bullshit when we are actively synthesizing than when we are passively reading. Reading can be so low effort as to give the illusion of understanding. I often find myself nodding along to every sentence and yet, at the end of the section, completely oblivious to the argument that has just been made. It is simply too easy to scan a sentence and think “I agree” without deeply considering its assumptions and implications.

Actively synthesizing – summarizing, paraphrasing, reconstructing – robs us of such privilege. When you have to reproduce an argument sentence by sentence, the logical inconsistencies and ungrounded assumptions stand out like a sore thumb. You find yourself asking a lot more “but why?” These questions guide you back into the text for answers and, in the process, help you gain a much deeper understanding. Put another way, the best way to learn is to learn as if you had to teach. Synthesizing while reading makes you both the student with a ton unresolved questions as well as the teacher who must come up with satisfying answers.

Not only will you gain a better rational understanding of the argumentative structure, but also an intuitive “feel” for the logical flow. Too often, we read a book without it ever changing us. Synthesis is what makes the insights in these great books our own so that they can be deeply imbedded into our characters and world-views.

Second, different levels of synthesis reveal different insights. If I had twenty pages for a book summary, I would be focused on the intricacies of an argument, while the broader strokes of the work might be lost amongst the details. On the other hand, if I only had a few sentences to cover an entire work, these broader strokes and important conclusions would be pronounced at the expense of nuance. As the name suggests, progressive-summaries produce a series of progressively distilled summaries and, as a result, retains all these different levels of insight. 
    - The Fractal-Summary Method
The method that I have developed, the fractal-summary, preserves these two strengths of progressive-summaries and improves upon it in two important ways.

First, it adds an additional step before we even get to the text: context. Most of these great books present a whole new system of thinking with alien terms created by the author. The problem with diving head-first into the text is that it is hard to understand each sentence without understanding the whole system. Of course, this is a chicken-and-egg problem. You also can’t fully understand the whole system without reading each sentence.

The purpose of the contextual step is to give you a rough and general outline of the entire system so that you can better understand what certain words mean and how each section fits into the overall structure. What this step looks like in practice, however, varies significantly. One way to gain context is to have a professor explain how a book fits into the larger philosophical canon, who its interlocutors are, and its historical context. Another way is to read an online summary of the entire book before picking up the text and reading a chapter summary before diving into each chapter. Another is to consult a glossary. Yet another is to read secondary literature that reconstructs the book. Regardless of the exact method, gaining sufficient context before diving into a text will payoff many-fold in increased comprehension and reading speed. 
    - Therefore, the second improvement of the fractal-summary method is that it forces you to start synthesizing while you are reading. It does this by applying the unit of the fractal to different levels of text: book, chapter, section, sentence. In other words, just as how you would synthesize an entire book in progressive-summarization, you are encouraged to synthesize every chapter, section, and even sentence, when writing fractal-summaries. 
    - The idea is that you should be actively synthesizing while you are reading: summarizing after every chapter, paragraph, or even sentence. Of course, depending on the book and your needs, you are free to choose which levels of text would be appropriate levels of synthesis. If the chapters are not well organized and the ideas within one bleed into the other, then don’t include the chapter-level unit in your fractal. If the writing is extremely dense, then you will have to synthesize on a sentence-level to even understand what the author is trying to say. 
