- Author:: [[Richard Koch]]
- Recommended By:: 
- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: The 80/20 Principle asserts that a minority of causes, inputs, or effort usually lead to a majority of the results, outputs, or rewards]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Taken literally, this means that, for example, 80 percent of what you achieve in your job comes from 20 percent of the time spent. Thus for all practical purposes, four-fifths of the effort—a dominant part of it—is largely irrelevant. This is contrary to what people normally expect. 
        - at any one point, a majority of any phenomenon will be explained or caused by a minority of the actors participating in the phenomenon. Eighty percent of the results come from 20 percent of the causes. A few things are important; most are not. 
    - #[[E: The 80/20 Principle can be explained by feedback loops]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Chaos theory explains how initial influences can become greatly multiplied and produce highly unexpected results, which nevertheless can be explained in retrospect. In the absence of feedback loops, the natural distribution of phenomena would be 50/50—inputs of a given frequency would lead to commensurate results. It is only because of positive and negative feedback loops that causes do not have equal results. Yet it also seems to be true that powerful positive feedback loops only affect a small minority of the inputs. This helps to explain why those small minority of inputs can exert so much influence. We can see positive feedback loops operating in many areas, explaining how it is that we typically end up with 80/20 rather than 50/50 relationships between populations. For example, the rich get richer, not just (or mainly) because of superior abilities, but because riches beget riches. A similar phenomenon exists with goldfish in a pond. Even if you start with goldfish almost exactly the same size, those that are slightly bigger become very much bigger, because, even with only slight initial advantages in stronger propulsion and larger mouths, they are able to capture and gobble up disproportionate amounts of food. 
    - #[[E: Tipping points can arise due to nonlinear effects]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Related to the idea of feedback loops is the concept of the tipping point. Up to a certain point, a new force—whether it is a new product, a disease, a new rock group, or a new social habit such as jogging or roller blading—finds it difficult to make headway. A great deal of effort generates little by way of results. At this point many pioneers give up. But if the new force persists and can cross a certain invisible line, a small amount of additional effort can reap huge returns. This invisible line is the tipping point. The concept comes from the principles of epidemic theory. The tipping point is “the point at which an ordinary and stable phenomenon—a low-level flu outbreak—can turn into a public-health crisis,” because of the number of people who are infected and can therefore infect others. And since the behavior of epidemics is nonlinear and they don’t behave in the way we expect, “small changes—like bringing new infections down to thirty thousand from forty thousand—can have huge effects … It all depends when and how the changes are made.”
    - #[[E: Chaos theory advocates “sensitive dependence on initial conditions”]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - What happens first, even something ostensibly trivial, can have a disproportionate effect. This resonates with, and helps to explain, the 80/20 Principle. The latter states that a minority of causes exert a majority of effects. One limitation of the 80/20 Principle, taken in isolation, is that it always represents a snapshot of what is true now (or, more precisely, in the very recent past when the snapshot was taken). This is where chaos theory’s doctrine of sensitive dependence on initial conditions is helpful. A small lead early on can turn into a larger lead or a dominant position later on, until equilibrium is disturbed and another small force then exerts a disproportionate influence. 
    - #[[E: We are actually awash with time and profligate in its abuse]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - 80 percent of the typical person’s happiness or achievement in life occurs in a small proportion of that life. The peaks of great personal value can usually be greatly expanded. The common view is that we are short of time. My application of the 80/20 Principle suggests the reverse: that we are actually awash with time and profligate in its abuse. 
    - #[[E: The few things that work fantastically well should be identified, cultivated, nurtured, and multiplied]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - At the same time, the waste—the majority of things that will always prove to be of low value to man and beast—should be abandoned or severely cut back.
    - #[[E: We should exercise control over our lives with the least possible effort]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should be selective, not exhaustive]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should strive for excellence in few things, rather than good performance in many]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should delegate or outsource as much as possible in our daily lives]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Use gardeners, car mechanics, decorators, and other specialists to the maximum, instead of doing the work ourselves
    - #[[E: We should choose our careers and employers with extraordinary care, and if possible employ others rather than being employed ourselves]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should only do the thing we are best at doing and enjoy most]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should look beneath the normal texture of life to uncover ironies and oddities]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: In every important sphere, work out where 20 percent of effort can lead to 80 percent of returns]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should calm down, work less and target a limited number of very valuable goals, rather than pursuing every available opportunity]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should make the most of those few “lucky streaks” in our life where we are at our creative peak and the stars line up to guarantee success]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should look for the short cut, rather than run the full course]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: We should celebrate exceptional productivity, rather than raise average efforts]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: What a business needs the most for its decisions—especially its strategic ones—are data about what goes on outside of it]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - It is only outside the business where there are results, opportunities, and threats.
    - #[[E: Successful firms operate in markets where it is possible for them to generate the highest revenues with the least effort]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - This will be true both absolutely, that is, relative to monetary profits, and relatively, that is, in relation to competition. A firm cannot be judged successful unless it has a high absolute surplus (in traditional terms, a high return on investment) and also a higher surplus than its competitors (higher margins). A second practical implication for all firms is that it is always possible to raise the economic surplus, usually by a large degree, by focusing only on those market and customer segments where the largest surpluses are currently being generated. This will always imply redeployment of resources into the most surplus-generating segments and will normally also imply a reduction in the total level of resource and expenditure (in plain words, fewer employees and other costs). Firms rarely reach the highest level of surplus that they could attain, or anywhere near it, both because managers are often not aware of the potential for surplus and because they often prefer to run large firms rather than exceptionally profitable ones. A third corollary is that it is possible for every corporation to raise the level of surplus by reducing the inequality of output and reward within the firm. This can be done by identifying the parts of the firm (people, factories, sales offices, overhead units, countries) that generate the highest surpluses and reinforcing these, giving them more power and resources; and, conversely, identifying the resources generating low or negative surpluses, facilitating dramatic improvements and, if these are not forthcoming, stopping the expenditure on these resources. 
    - #[[E: Cause and effect, input and output, operate in a nonlinear way]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You do not usually get back what you put in; you may sometimes get very much less and sometimes get very much more. Major alterations in a business system can flow from apparently insignificant causes. At any one time, people of equal intelligence, skill, and dedication can produce quite unequal results, as a result of small structural differences. Events cannot be predicted, although predictable patterns tend to recur. 
    - #[[E: Combat the tendency to increase complexity]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Business people seem to love complexity. No sooner is a simple business successful than its managers pour vast amounts of energy into making it very much more complicated. But business returns abhor complexity. As the business becomes more complex, its returns fall dramatically. This is not just because more marginal business is being taken. It is also because the act of making a business more complex depresses returns more effectively than any other means known to humanity. 
        - Parts of the business that are mature and simple can be amazingly profitable. Cutting the number of products, customers, and suppliers usually leads to higher profits, partly because you can have the luxury of just focusing on the most profitable activities and customers, but partly also because the costs of complexity—in the form of overheads and management—can be slashed. 
        - What is most simple and standardized is hugely more productive and cost effective than what is complex. The simplest messages are the most appealing and universal: to colleagues, consumers, and suppliers. The simplest structures and process flows are at once the most attractive and the lowest cost. Letting the customer access your business system—as with all forms of self-service—creates choice, economy, speed, and spend. Always try to identify the simplest 20 percent of any product range, process, marketing message, sales channel, product design, product manufacture, service delivery, or customer feedback mechanism. Cultivate the simplest 20 percent. Refine it until it is as simple as you can make it. Standardize delivery of a simple product or service on as universal and global a basis as possible. Pass up thrills, bells, and whistles. Make the simplest 20 percent as high quality and consistent as imaginable. Whenever something has become complex, simplify it; if you cannot, eliminate it. 
        - Managers love complexity. Complexity is stimulating and intellectually challenging; it leavens boring routine; and it creates interesting jobs for managers. Some people believe that complexity obtrudes when no one is looking. No doubt—but complexity is also sponsored by managers, just as it sponsors them. Most organizations, even ostensibly commercial and capitalist ones, are conspiracies of management against the interests of customers, investors, and the outside world generally. Unless firms are facing an economic crisis, or have an unusual leader who favors investors and customers rather than his or her own managers, excess management activity is virtually guaranteed. It is in the interests of the managerial class in charge.
        - There is thus a natural tendency for business, like life in general, to become overcomplex. All organizations, especially large and complex ones, are inherently inefficient and wasteful. They do not focus on what they should be doing. They should be adding value to their customers and potential customers. Any activity that does not fulfill this goal is unproductive. Yet most large organizations engage in prodigious amounts of expensive, unproductive activity. 
    - #[[E: The road to hell is paved with the pursuit of volume]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Volume leads to marginal products, marginal customers, and greatly increased managerial complexity. Since complexity is both interesting and rewarding to managers, it is often tolerated or encouraged until it can no longer be afforded. 
    - #[[E: Additional scale, without additional complexity, will always give lower unit costs]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - To deliver to one customer more of one product or service, provided that it is exactly the same, will always raise returns. Yet additional scale is rarely just more of the same. Even if the customer is the same, the extra volume usually comes from adapting an existing product, providing a new product, and/or adding more service. This requires expensive overhead costs that are usually hidden, but always real. And if new customers are involved it is far worse. There are high initial costs in recruiting customers and they generally have different needs to existing customers, causing even greater complexity and cost. 
        - All other things being equal, big is beautiful. But all other things are not equal. Big is only ugly and expensive because it is complex. Big can be beautiful. But it is simple that is always beautiful. 
    - #[[E: The key problem with head offices is the way they take away real responsibility and initiative from those who add the value to customers]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Corporations should center themselves around customer needs rather than around the management hierarchy. 
        - Where a chunk of business is simple, the chances are that it is closer to the customer. There is less management to get in the way. Customers can be listened to and feel that they are important. People are willing to pay a lot more for this. For customers, the quest for self-importance is at least as important as the quest for value. Simplicity raises prices as well as lowering costs. 
    - #[[E: Every person and every organization is the product of a coalition and the forces within the coalition are always at war]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The war is between the trivial many and the vital few. The trivial many comprise the prevalent inertia and ineffectiveness. The vital few are the breakthrough streaks of effectiveness, brilliance, and good fit. Most activity results in little value and little change. A few powerful interventions have massive impact. The war is difficult to observe: it is the same person, the same unit, and the same organization that produces both a mass of weak (or negative) output and a smattering of highly valuable output. All we can discern is the overall result; we miss both the garbage and the gems. It follows that any organization always has great potential for cost reduction and for delivering better value to customers: by simplifying what it does and by eliminating low-or negative-value activities. 
        - All organizations are a mix of productive and unproductive forces: people, relationships, and assets 
    - #[[E: Waste thrives on complexity; effectiveness requires simplicity]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The mass of activity will always be pointless, poorly conceived, badly directed, wastefully executed, and largely beside the point to customers
        - A small portion of activity will always be terrifically effective and valued by customers; it is probably not what you think it is; it is opaque and buried within a basket of less effective activity
    - #[[E: Major improvements are always possible, by doing things differently and by doing less]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: Poor performance is always endemic, hiding behind and succored by a smaller amount of excellent performance]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: Value delivered to customers is rarely measured and always unequal]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Great leaps forward require measurement and comparison of the value delivered to customers and what they will pay for it. 
    - #[[E: The large and simple business is the best]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Because business is wasteful, and because complexity and waste feed on each other, a simple business will always be better than a complex business. Because scale is normally valuable, for any given level of complexity, it is better to have a larger business. The large and simple business is the best. The way to create something great is to create something simple. Anyone who is serious about delivering better value to customers can easily do so, by reducing complexity. Any large business is stuffed full of passengers—unprofitable products, processes, suppliers, customers, and, heaviest of all, managers. The passengers obstruct the evolution of commerce. Progress requires simplicity, and simplicity requires ruthlessness. This helps to explain why simple is as rare as it is beautiful. 
    - #[[E: Success requires providing a product/service/price package that is much better value than is obtainable elsewhere]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - These conditions are unlikely to apply in more than 20 percent of your current product line; and you are likely to obtain more than 80 percent of your true profits from this 20 percent. And if these conditions apply in almost none of your product lines, your only hope is to innovate. At this stage, the creative marketeer must become product led. All innovation is necessarily product led. You cannot innovate without a new product or service. 
    - #[[E: Focusing on 20 percent of your customers is a great deal easier than focusing on 100 percent of them]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Being customer centered on all of your customers is pretty nigh impossible. But cherishing the core 20 percent is both feasible and highly rewarding. 
        - Marketing, for all the organization’s members, must mean providing ever higher levels of delight for the key 20 percent of its customers. 
    - #[[E: Hang on to the high performers]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You shouldn’t follow the old adage: if it ain’t broke don’t fix it. If it ain’t broke, make damn sure it doesn’t break. The next best thing to staying close to your customers is to stay close to the top salespeople. Keep them happy; this cannot be done solely with cash. 
    - #[[E: There are only a few things that ever produce important results]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Most efforts do not realize their intended results.
    - #[[E: What you see is generally not what you get: there are subterranean forces at work]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - It is usually too complicated and too wearisome to work out what is happening and it is also unnecessary: all you need to know is whether something is working or not and change the mix until it is; then keep the mix constant until it stops working. 
        - Most good events happen because of a small minority of highly productive forces; most bad things happen because of a small minority of highly destructive forces. 
        - Most activity, en masse and individually, is a waste of time. It will not contribute materially to desired results. 
    - #[[E: Not many decisions are very important]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Before deciding anything, picture yourself with two trays in front of you—like the dreaded In and Out trays on a desk—one marked Important Decisions and one Unimportant Decisions. Mentally sort the decisions, remembering that only one in twenty is likely to fall into the Important Decision box. Do not agonize over the unimportant decisions and above all don’t conduct expensive and time-consuming analysis. If possible, delegate them all. If you can’t, decide which decision has a probability of 51 percent of being correct. If you can’t decide that quickly, toss a coin. 
    - #[[E: The most important decisions are often those made only by default, because turning points have come and gone without being recognized]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - What uncharted problems and opportunities, that could potentially have tremendous consequences, are mounting up without my noticing?
        - What is working well when it shouldn’t or at least was not intended to? What are we unintentionally providing to customers that for some reason they seem to appreciate greatly?
        - Is there something going badly astray, where we think we know why but where we might be totally wrong? 
        - Since something important is always happening underneath the surface, without anyone noticing it, what could it be this time? 
    - #[[E: For important decisions: gather 80 percent of the data and perform 80 percent of the relevant analyses in the first 20 percent of the time available]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Then make a decision 100 percent of the time and act decisively as if you were 100 percent confident that the decision is right. 
    - #[[E: If what you have decided isn’t working, change your mind early rather than late]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The market in its broadest sense—what works in practice—is a much more reliable indicator than tons of analysis. So don’t be afraid to experiment and don’t persevere with losing solutions. Do not fight the market. 
    - #[[E: When something is working well, double and redouble your bets]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You may not know why it’s working so well, but push as hard as you can while the forces of the universe are bending your way. Venture capitalists know this. Most of the investments in their portfolio fail to meet their expectations, but they are redeemed by a few superstar investments that succeed beyond everyone’s wildest dreams. When a business keeps performing below its budgets, you may be sure you have a dog. When a business consistently outperforms expectations, there is at least a good chance that it can be multiplied by ten or a hundred times. In these circumstances, most people settle for modest growth. Those who seize the day become seriously rich. 
    - #[[E: A few things are always much more important than most things]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - This is invariably true, yet difficult at first to credit. Unless we have numbers or 80/20 Thinking to guide us, most things always appear more important than the few things that are actually more important. Even if we accept the point in our minds, it is difficult to make the next hop to focused action. Keep the “vital few” in the forefront of your brain. And keep reviewing whether you are spending more time and effort on the vital few rather than the trivial many. 
    - #[[E: Progress means moving resources from low-value to high-value uses]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Like individual entrepreneurs, the free markets shift resources out of areas of lower productivity into areas of higher productivity and yield. But neither markets nor entrepreneurs, let alone today’s overcomplex corporate or government bureaucracies, do this well enough. There is always a tail of waste, usually a very long tail, where 80 percent of resources are producing only 20 percent of value. This always creates arbitrage opportunities for genuine entrepreneurs. The scope for entrepreneurial arbitrage is always underestimated. 
    - #[[E: A few people add most of the value]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The best people—meaning the people best fitted to what they are doing and doing the things that make the most money—generate enormous surpluses, usually far beyond what they are allowed to take out. Normally there are very few such people. The majority add little more than they take out. A large minority (still often the majority) take out more than they contribute. This misallocation of resources is greatest in larger and more diversified corporations. 
        - Progress always comes from a small minority of people and organized resources who demonstrate that previously accepted ceilings of performance can become floors for everyone. 
    - #[[E: Any large, managed corporation is an organized conspiracy to misallocate rewards]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The larger and more complex the firm, the greater the extent and success of the conspiracy. Those who work in corporations, or have extensive dealings with them, know that a few employees are priceless. They add value far beyond their cost. Many employees are passengers adding much less value than they cost. Some, perhaps 10–20 percent, subtract value, even ignoring their compensation. There are many reasons for this happening: the difficulty of measuring true performance; the political skill or otherwise of executives; the difficult-to-eradicate tendency to favor those whom we like; the ridiculous but prevalent idea that job role should count for as much or more than individual performance; and the sheer human tendency toward egalitarianism, often buttressed by the legitimate wish to foster team working. Waste and idleness gravitate to where complexity and democracy meet. 
    - #[[E: Margins vary wildly]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Margins—between value and cost, between effort and reward—are always highly variable. High-margin activities constitute a small part of total activities but a majority of total margins. If we didn’t interfere with the natural allocation of resources, these imbalances would become even more marked. But we bury our heads in the sand (accounting systems conveniently provide endless beaches specifically for this purpose) and refuse to acknowledge the reality that the majority of what we and our firms do is worth much less than the minority of high-margin activities. 
    - #[[E: Resources are always misallocated]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - We give too many resources to low-margin activities and too few to high-margin activities. Yet despite our best endeavors, the high-margin activities continue to flourish and the subsidized activities fail to generate their own momentum. If resources are available, because of the slack created by the high-margin activities, the low-margin activities will consume more and more resources while continuing to contribute little, zero or negative surpluses for reinvestment. We are continually surprised at how well the best activities are doing and at how long it is taking for the problem areas to turn around. Usually, the latter never do. We nearly always take too long to realize this and only the intervention of a new boss, a crisis, or a management consultant makes us do what we should have done long ago. 
    - #[[E: Success is underrated and underrecognized]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Success is undervalued, undercelebrated, and underexploited. Often it is dismissed as a lucky streak. But luck, like accidents, doesn’t happen as often as we think. “Luck” is our word for success which we cannot fathom. Behind luck there is always a highly effective mechanism, generating surpluses regardless of our failure to notice it. Because we cannot believe our “luck,” we fail to multiply and benefit from value-creating virtuous circles. 
    - #[[E: Nothing lasts forever and nothing is ever in equilibrium. Innovation is the only constant]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Innovation is always resisted and often retarded, but rarely extinguished. Successful innovation is hugely more productive than the status quo; it has to be, to overcome it. Beyond a certain point, the momentum of effective innovation becomes irresistible. Personal, corporate, and national success resides not in invention, or even in creating the marketable innovation, but in spotting the point at which the innovation is about to become irresistible and then riding it for all it is worth. Change is necessary for survival. Constructive change requires insight into what is most effective and a focus on that winning way. 
    - #[[E: The biggest wins all start small]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Finally, something big always comes from something which is small to start with. Small causes, small products, small firms, small markets, small systems: all of these are often the start of something big. Yet they are rarely recognized as such. Our attention is usually on the mass of what already exists, not on the trend evident in small phenomena. We usually only notice something after it has already become big, when the growth is already decelerating. Fortunes are made by the very few who latch on to growth when it is still small and accelerating. Even those who are experiencing the growth rarely realize its significance or potential to make a fortune. 
    - #[[E: Whenever you can, move resources from 80 percent activities to 20 percent activities]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The profit from this is enormous because it is highly leveraged arbitrage. You use what is not very valuable to make something that is enormously valuable, winning at both ends of the exchange. 
    - #[[E: Leave action behind, do some quiet thinking, mine a few small pieces of precious insight, and then act]][[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Act selectively, on a few objectives and a narrow front, decisively and impressively, to produce terrific results with as little energy and as few resources as possible. 
    - #[[E: Progress springs from identifying the waste and suboptimality inherent in life, starting with our daily lives, and then doing something about it]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Conventional wisdom is no help here, except as a counter indicator. It is conventional wisdom that leads to the waste and suboptimality in the first place. The power of the 80/20 Principle lies in doing things differently based on unconventional wisdom. This requires you to work out why most other people are doing things wrongly or to a fraction of their potential. If your insights are not unconventional, you are not thinking 80/20. 
    - #[[E: Most people fall into traps in their lives]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - They spend a lot of time with people they do not much like. They do jobs they are not enthusiastic about. They use up most of their “free time” (incidentally an anti-hedonistic concept) on activities they do not greatly enjoy. The reverse is also true. They do not spend most time with the people they like most; they do not pursue the career they would most like; and they do not use most of their free time on the activities they enjoy most. They are not optimists, and even those who are optimists do not plan carefully to make their future lives better. All this is curious. One could say that it is the triumph of experience over hope, except that “experience” is a self-created construct that usually owes more to our perception of external reality than to objective external reality itself. It would be better to say that it is the triumph of guilt over joy, of genetics over intelligence, or predestination over choice, and, in a very real sense, of death over life. 
    - #[[E: Hedonism is in fact a necessary condition for helping others and for achievement]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - It is very difficult, and always wasteful, to achieve something worthwhile without enjoying it. 
    - #[[E: Traditional thinking is encased within a powerful but sometimes inaccurate and destructive mental model]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - It is linear. It believes that x leads to y, that y causes z, and that b is the inevitable consequence of a. You made me unhappy because you were late. My poor schooling led to my dead-end job. I have been successful because I am very clever. Hitler caused the Second World War. My firm cannot grow because the industry is declining. Unemployment is the price we pay for low inflation. High taxes are necessary if we want to look after the poor, the sick, and the old. 
    - #[[E: 80/20 Thinking escapes from the linear-logic trap by appealing to experience, introspection, and imagination]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If you are unhappy, do not worry about the proximate cause. Think about the times you have been happy and maneuver yourself into similar situations. If your career is going nowhere, do not tinker around at the edges seeking incremental improvements: a bigger office, a more expensive car, a grander-sounding title, fewer working hours, a more understanding boss. Think about the few, most important achievements that are yours in your whole life and seek more of the same, if necessary switching jobs or even careers. 
    - #[[E: Do not look for causes, especially not for causes of failure]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Imagine and then create the circumstances that will make you both happy and productive. 
    - #[[E: Most of what any of us achieve in life, occurs in a very small proportion of our working lives]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - 80/20 Thinking and observation make this perfectly clear. We have more than enough time. We demean ourselves, both by lack of ambition and by assuming that ambition is served by bustle and busyness. Achievement is driven by insight and selective action. The still, small voice of calm has a bigger place in our lives than we acknowledge. Insight comes when we are feeling relaxed and good about ourselves. Insight requires time—and time, despite conventional wisdom, is there in abundance. 
    - #[[E: 80 percent of achievement and happiness takes place in 20 percent of our time]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - These peaks can be expanded greatly.
    - #[[E: Our lives are profoundly affected, for good and ill, by a few events and a few decisions]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity
        - The few decisions are often taken by default rather than conscious choice: we let life happen to us rather than shaping our own lives. We can improve our lives dramatically by recognizing the turning points and making the decisions that will make us happy and productive. 
    - #[[E: There are always a few key inputs to what happens and they are often not the obvious ones]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If the key causes can be identified and isolated, we can very often exert more influence on them than we think possible. 
    - #[[E: Everyone can achieve something significant]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The key is not effort, but finding the right thing to achieve. You are hugely more productive at some things than at others, but dilute the effectiveness of this by doing too many things where your comparative skill is nowhere near as great. 
    - #[[E: There are always winners and losers—and always more of the latter]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You can be a winner by choosing the right competition, the right team and the right methods to win. You are more likely to win by rigging the odds in your favor (legitimately and fairly) than by striving to improve your performance. You are more likely to win again where you have won before. You are more likely to win when you are selective about the races you enter. 
        - Most of our failures are in races for which others enter us. Most of our successes come from races we ourselves want to enter. We fail to win most races because we enter too many of the wrong ones: their races, not ours. 
    - #[[E: One of the most important decisions someone can make in life is their choice of allies]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Almost nothing can be achieved without allies. Most people do not choose their allies carefully or even at all. The allies somehow arrive. This is a serious case of letting life happen to you. Most people have the wrong allies. Most also have too many and do not use them properly. 80/20 thinkers choose a few allies carefully and build the alliances carefully to achieve their specific objectives. 
        - An extreme case of carelessness with allies is picking the wrong “significant other” or life partner. Most people have too many friends and do not enjoy an appropriately selected and reinforced inner circle. Many people have the wrong life partners—and even more do not nurture the right life partner properly. • 
        - You will always have some obligations to others and these can be extremely useful from your perspective. Even the entrepreneur is not really a lone wolf, answerable to no one. He or she has partners, employees, alliances, and a network of contacts, from whom nothing can be expected if nothing is given. The point is to choose your partners and obligations extremely selectively and with great care. 
        - Individuals may appear to do amazing things—and they do. But exceptional individual performance requires allies. 
        - You alone cannot make yourself successful. Only others can do that for you. What you can do is to select the best relationships and alliances for your purposes. 
        - You badly need allies. You must treat them well, as an extension of yourself, as you treat yourself (or should). Do not assume your friends and allies are all of roughly equal importance. Focus your attention on nurturing the key alliances of your life. If this seems obvious or banal, ask yourself how many of your friends follow these lines. Then ask yourself whether you do. 
        - In almost any sphere of achievement, you can identify a small number of key collaborators, without whom individuals could not have succeeded but with whom individuals have had massive impact. In government, in mass ideological movements, in business, in medicine, in the sciences, in philanthropy, or in sport, the pattern is the same. History is not composed of blind, nonhuman forces. History is not run by classes or élites operating according to some preprogrammed economic or sociological formula. History is determined and changed by dedicated individuals who form effective alliances with a small number of close collaborators. 
        - People help you because there is a strong relationship between you. The best relationships are built on five attributes: mutual enjoyment of each other’s company, respect, shared experience, reciprocity, and trust. 
        - You don’t need many allies but you need the right ones, with the right relationships between you and each of them and between themselves. You need them at the right time, in the right place and with a common interest in advancing your interests. Above all, the allies must trust you and you must be able to trust them. 
        - For alliances to work, each ally must do a great deal for the other party—repeatedly, consistently, over a long period of time. 
        - Reciprocity requires that the relationship is not one sided. Equally, reciprocity should come naturally and not be too finely calculated. The important thing is that you do whatever you possibly can, consistent with high ethical standards, to help the other person. This requires time and thought! You should not wait until they ask a favor. 
        - Trust cements relationships. Lack of trust can unwind them very quickly. Trust requires total honesty at all times. If there is even a suspicion that you are not saying what you think, even for the most high-minded reasons or to remain diplomatic, trust can be undermined. If you do not trust someone totally, don’t try to build up an alliance. It shouldn’t work and it won’t. 
    - #[[E: Money used rightly can be a source of opportunity to shift to a better lifestyle]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Few people know how to multiply money, but 80/20 thinkers should be able to do so. As long as money is subordinated to lifestyle and happiness, there is no harm in this ability. 
    - #[[E: Few people spend enough time and thought cultivating their own happiness]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - They seek indirect goals, like money and promotion, that may be difficult to attain and will prove when they are attained to be extremely inefficient sources of happiness. Not only is happiness not money, it is not even like money. Money not spent can be saved and invested and, through the magic of compound interest, multiplied. But happiness not spent today does not lead to happiness tomorrow. Happiness, like the mind, will atrophy if not exercised. 80/20 thinkers know what generates their happiness and pursue it consciously, cheerfully, and intelligently, using happiness today to build and multiply happiness tomorrow. 
    - #[[E: Most people spend most of their time on activities that are of low value to themselves and others]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The 80/20 thinker escapes this trap and can achieve much more of the few higher-value objectives without noticeably more effort. 
    - #[[E: People who achieve the most are selective as well as determined]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Few people take objectives really seriously. They put average effort into too many things, rather than superior thought and effort into a few important things.
    - #[[E: There is a profound imbalance between what is created and the time taken to create it]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Most of any individual’s significant achievements—most of the value someone adds in professional, intellectual, artistic, cultural, or athletic terms—is achieved in a minority of their time. 
    - #[[E: Most of an individual’s happiness occurs during quite bounded periods of time]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If happiness could be accurately measured, a large majority of it would register in a fairly small proportion of the total time and this would apply during most periods, whether the period measured was a day, a week, a month, a year, or a lifetime. 
    - #[[E: If we make good use of only 20 percent of our time, there is no shortage of it]]  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity#[[Business Future]]
        - Most of what we do is of low value. 
        - Some small fragments of our time are much more valuable than all the rest. If we can do anything about this, we should do something radical: there is no point tinkering around the edges or making our use of time a little more efficient. 
        - Time management implicitly assumes that we know what is and is not a good use of our time. If the 80/20 Principle holds, this is not a safe assumption. In any case, if we knew what was important, we’d be doing it already. 
        - The name time management gives the game away. It implies that time can be managed more efficiently, that it is a valuable and scarce resource and that we must dance to its tune. We must be parsimonious with time. Given half a chance, it will escape from us. Time lost, the time management evangelists say, can never be regained. 
        - Our current use of time is not rational. There is therefore no point in seeking marginal improvements in how we spend our time. We need to go back to the drawing board and overturn all our assumptions about time. 
        - There is no shortage of time. In fact, we are positively awash with it. We only make good use of 20 percent of our time. And for the most talented individuals, it is often tiny amounts of time that make all the difference. The 80/20 Principle says that if we doubled our time on the top 20 percent of activities, we could work a two-day week and achieve 60 percent more than now. This is light years away from the frenetic world of time management. 
        - The 80/20 Principle treats time as a friend, not an enemy. Time gone is not time lost. Time will always come round again. This is why there are seven days in a week, twelve months in a year, why the seasons come round again. Insight and value are likely to come from placing ourselves in a comfortable, relaxed, and collaborative position toward time. It is our use of time, and not time itself, that is the enemy. 
        - The 80/20 Principle says that we should act less. Action drives out thought. It is because we have so much time that we squander it. The most productive time on a project is usually the last 20 percent, simply because the work has to be completed before a deadline. Productivity on most projects could be doubled simply by halving the amount of time for their completion. This is not evidence that time is in short supply. 
        - It is not shortage of time that should worry us, but the tendency for the majority of time to be spent in low-quality ways. Speeding up or being more “efficient” with our use of time will not help us; indeed, such ways of thinking are more the problem than the solution. 
        - Time should not be seen as a sequence, running from left to right as in nearly all graphical representations that the culture of business has imposed on us. It is better to view time as a synchronizing and cyclical device, just as the inventors of the clock intended. Time keeps coming round, bringing with it the opportunity to learn, to deepen a few valued relationships, to produce a better product or outcome, and to add more value to life. We do not exist just in the present; we spring from the past and have a treasure trove of past associations; and our future, like our past, is already immanent in the present. 
    - #[[E: Hard work, especially for somebody else, is not an efficient way to achieve what we want]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Hard work leads to low returns. Insight and doing what we ourselves want lead to high returns. 
    - #[[E: Do the things that you like doing. Make them your job. Make your job them]]. #[[Business Future]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity
        - Nearly everyone who has become rich has had the added bonus of becoming rich doing things they enjoy. This might be taken as yet another example of the universe’s 80/20 perversity. 
        - Those who achieve the most have to enjoy what they do. It is only by fulfilling oneself that anything of extraordinary value can be created. 
        - You will not create anything of enduring value unless you love creating it. This applies as much to purely personal as to business matters. 
    - #[[E: Most people try too hard at the wrong things]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The modern world would greatly benefit if a lower quantity of work led to a greater profusion of creativity and intelligence. If much greater work would benefit the most idle 20 percent of our people, much less work would benefit the hardest-working 20 percent; and such arbitrage would benefit society both ways. The quantity of work is much less important than its quality, and its quality depends on self-direction. 
    - #[[E: The 20 percent who achieve the most either work for themselves or behave as if they do]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: Not all eccentric ways of spending time will multiply your effectiveness, but some or at least one of them could]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Draw up several scenarios and adopt the one that allows you the most time on high-value activities that you enjoy. 
        - There is normally great scope to do things differently within your existing circumstances. Remember the advice above: be unconventional and eccentric in how you use your time. Do not follow the herd. 
        - When thinking about any potential use of time, ask two questions: • Is it unconventional? • Does it promise to multiply effectiveness? It is unlikely to be a good use of time unless the answer to both questions is yes. 
    - #[[E: Identify your happiness islands: the small amounts of time, or the few years, that have contributed a quite disproportionate amount of your happiness]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Take a clean sheet of paper, write “Happiness Islands” at the top and list as many of them as you can remember. Then try to deduce what is common between all or some of the happiness islands. 
        - Identify the times when you are happiest and expand them as much as possible. • Identify the times when you are least happy and reduce them as much as possible. Spend more time on the type of activities that are very effective at making you happy and less time on other activities. Start by cutting off the “valleys of unhappiness,” the things that tend to make you actively unhappy. The best way to start being more happy is to stop being unhappy. You have more control over this than you imagine simply by avoiding situations where experience suggests you are likely to become unhappy. 
        - Repeat the procedures for your unhappiness islands. These will not generally comprise the other 80 percent of your time, since (for most people) there is a large no-man’s-land of moderate happiness between the happiness and unhappiness islands. Yet it is important to identify the most significant causes of unhappiness and any common denominators between them. 
    - #[[E: Identify your achievement islands]] [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity
        - The short periods when you have achieved a much higher ratio of value to time than during the rest of your week, month, year, or life. Head a clean sheet of paper with “Achievement Islands” and list as many as you can, if possible taken over the whole of your life. 
        - List separately your achievement desert islands. These are the periods of greatest sterility and lowest productivity. 
        - Think about your past achievements that have had the most positive “market” response from others, those that have led to the greatest critical acclaim: the 20 percent of your work and play that has led to 80 percent of the praise others have given you. How much real satisfaction did this give you? • What methods worked best for you in the past? Which collaborators? Which audiences? Again, think 80/20. Anything that just yielded an average degree of satisfaction for the time or effort should be discarded. Think of the exceptional highs achieved exceptionally easily. Do not constrain yourself to your work history. Think of your time as a student, a tourist, or with friends. 
        - Looking forward, what could you achieve that would make you proud, that no one else could do with the same ease? If there were 100 people around you trying to do something, what could you do in 20 percent of the time that it would take 80 of them to finish? Where would you be in the top 20? Even more stringently, what could you do better than 80 percent but in only 20 percent of the time? These questions may initially seem like riddles but, believe me, there are answers! People’s abilities in different spheres are incredibly diverse. 
        - If you could measure the enjoyment derived from anything, what would you enjoy more than 95 percent of your peers? What would you do better than 95 out of 100? Which achievements would fulfill both conditions? 
    - #[[E: Try to move the time spent on high-value activities up from 20 to 100 percent]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - This may only be possible by changing career and lifestyle. If so, make a plan, with deadlines, for how you are going to make these changes. 
        - For the 80 percent of activities that give you only 20 percent of results, the ideal is to eliminate them. You may need to do this before allocating more time to the high-value activities (although people often find that firing themselves up to spend more time on the high-value activities is a more efficient way of forcing them to set aside the low-value time sinks). 
        - Even if dropping the low-value activities does require a radical change in circumstances—a new job, a new career, new friends, even a new lifestyle or partner—form a plan to make the desired changes. The alternative is that your potential for achievement and happiness will never be attained. 
    - #[[E: Pursue those few things where you are amazingly better than others and that you enjoy most]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: A small number of relationships will account for a large proportion of emotional value]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Fill your relationship slots with extreme care and not too early! 
    - #[[E: It is a waste of time to spend a lot of time with people you don’t like]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - It’s not enjoyable, it’s tiring, it’s often expensive, it prevents you doing better things, and it will get you absolutely nowhere. Stop doing it! Spend more time with the contacts you enjoy, particularly if they can also be useful to you. 
    - #[[E: We live in a world where the returns for top talent, in all spheres of life, have never been higher]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - A small percentage of professionals obtain a disproportionate amount of recognition and fame and usually also a high percentage of the spoils available. 
        - One of the most marked tendencies in the world of work over the past generation has been the increasing power and status of technicians, formerly often blue-collar workers but now empowered by specialist knowledge in league with ever more specialized information technology. These experts are now often more powerful and well paid than the technologically more primitive managers who purported to add value by organizing the technicians. 
        - Rewards increasingly demonstrate the 80/20 Principle: the winners take all. Those who are truly ambitious must aim for the top in their field. Choose your field narrowly. Specialize. Choose the niche that is made for you. You will not excel unless you also enjoy what you are doing. Success requires knowledge. But success also requires insight into what delivers the greatest customer satisfaction with the least use of resources. Identify where 20 percent of resources can be made to deliver 80 percent of returns. Early in your career, learn all there is to be learned. You can only do this by working for the best firms and the best individuals within them, “best” being defined with reference to your own narrow niche. Obtain the four forms of labor leverage. First, leverage your own time. Second, capture 100 percent of its value by becoming self-employed. Third, employ as many net value creators as possible. Fourth, contract out everything that you and your colleagues are not several times better at doing. If you do all this, you will have built your career into a firm, your own firm. At this stage, use capital leverage to multiply its wealth. 
    - ### 10 golden rules for career success 
        - Specialize in a very small niche; develop a core skill 
        - Choose a niche that you enjoy, where you can excel and stand a chance of becoming an acknowledged leader 
        - Realize that knowledge is power 
        - Identify your market and your core customers and serve them best 
        - Identify where 20 percent of effort gives 80 percent of returns 
        - Learn from the best 
        - Become self-employed early in your career 
        - Employ as many net value creators as possible 
        - Use outside contractors for everything but your core skill 
        - Exploit capital leverage 
    - #[[E: Specialization is one of the great, universal laws of life]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - This is how life itself evolved, with each species seeking out new ecological niches and developing unique characteristics. A small business that does not specialize will die. An individual who does not specialize will be doomed to life as a wage slave. 
        - In the natural world the number of species is unknown, but it is almost certainly an astonishingly large number. The number of niches in the business world is very much larger than generally appreciated; hence many small businesses, apparently in competition in a broad market, can actually all be leaders in their own niches and avoid head-to-head competition.
        - It is better to know a few things well, or preferably one thing exceptionally well, than it is to know many things superficially. Specialization is intrinsic to the 80/20 Principle. The reason that it operates—that 20 percent of inputs can result in 80 percent of outputs—is that the productive fifth is much more specialized and suited to the task at hand than are the unproductive four-fifths. 
        - Find your niche. It may take you a long time, but it is the only way you will gain access to exceptional returns. 
        - Specialize in an area in which you are already interested and which you enjoy. You will not become an acknowledged leader in anything that cannot command your enthusiasm and passion. 
    - #[[E: The most important class distinction in advanced societies is not ownership of land or even of wealth, but ownership of information]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Eighty percent of information is the property of 20 percent of people. 
    - #[[E: Almost every hobby, every enthusiasm, every vocation can these days be turned into a business activity]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
    - #[[E: Enthusiasm drives personal achievement and also infects others with enthusiasm, creating a multiplier effect]]. [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You cannot feign or manufacture enthusiasm. 
        - Write down all the things about which you are enthusiastic. Then work out which of these could be made into a career niche. Then choose the one about which you are most enthusiastic. 
        - The key to making a career out of an enthusiasm is knowledge. Know more about an area than anybody else does. Then work out a way to marketize it, to create a market and a set of loyal customers. It is not enough to know a lot about a little. You have to know more than anybody else, at least about something. Do not stop improving your expertise until you are sure you know more, and are better in your niche, than anybody else. Then reinforce your lead by constant practice and inveterate curiosity. Do not expect to become a leader unless you really are more knowledgeable than anyone else. Marketization is a creative process: you will need to work out for yourself how to do this. Perhaps you can follow the example of others who have marketized their knowledge in an adjacent area. 
    - #[[E: Your market is those people who might pay for your knowledge]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The core customers are those who would value your services most. The market is the arena within which you will operate. This requires you to define how the knowledge you have can be sold. Are you going to work for an established firm or an individual as an employee, to work for a number of corporations or individuals as a freelancer, or to set up business marketing services (derived from the labor of yourself and others) to individuals or to firms? Are you going to supply raw knowledge, to process it for specific situations, or to use the knowledge to create a product? Are you going to invent the product, to add value to someone else’s semifinished product, or to be a retailer of finished products? Your core customer or customers are the specific individuals or corporations that may place the highest value on your activity and that may provide a stream of well-paid work. Whether you are employed, self-employed, a small or large employer, or even the head of state, you have core customers on whom your continued success depends. This is true whatever the level of your past achievement. 
    - #[[E: Where do corporations make supranormal, even obscene, profits?]]  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Which of your colleagues is riding high while always seeming relaxed, with time to indulge themselves in their favorite hobbies? What are they doing that’s so cute? Think, think, think. The answer is there somewhere. All you have to do is find it. But don’t ask the industry Establishment what the answer is, don’t do a survey of your colleagues, and don’t try to find the answer in print. All you will find is the conventional wisdom, repeated a zillion ways. The answer will lie with the industry heretics, the professional mavericks, and the eccentric individuals. 
    - #[[E: Leaders do things differently. They are usually outsiders; they think and feel differently]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Those who are best in any sphere do not think and act in similar ways to the average performers. The leaders may not be conscious of what they do differently. Very rarely do they think about it and articulate it. But, if leaders do not generally explain the secrets of their success, these can often be deduced by observation. 
    - #[[E: Try to learn from the best in your field]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Previous generations understood this well. The disciple sitting at the feet of the master, the apprentice learning a trade from a craftsman, the student learning by assisting a professor with research, the artist serving time with an accomplished artist: all learnt by observing the best in their field at work, by assisting and by imitating. Be willing to pay a high price to work for the best. Find any excuse to spend time with them. Work out what their characteristic ways of operating are. You will find that they see things differently, spend time differently, and interact with other people differently. Unless you can do what they do, or something even more different from the average modus vivendi in the profession, you will never rise to the top. 
    - #[[E: Leverage your own time so that you focus on the things where you add five times more value than elsewhere]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The second step is to ensure that you capture as much of this value for yourself. The ideal position, one that you should aim to reach early in your career, is to capture all of the value of your work for yourself. 
    - #[[E: The one circumstance in which it may not be appropriate to become self-employed yet is when you are still in the rapid learning stage]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If a corporation or professional firm is teaching you a great deal, the value of this learning may exceed the differential between the value you add and what you are paid. This is typically the case during the first two or three years of a professional career. It can also be the case when more experienced professionals join a new firm that has higher standards than the ones in which they have previously worked. In this case, the period of superlearning usually lasts for a few months only, or a year at the most. When these periods are over, become self-employed. Do not worry overmuch about security. Your professional expertise and use of 80/20 precepts constitute your security. In any case, firms can no longer deliver security. 
    - #[[E: Leverage the power of other people]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - There is only one you, but there are a very large number of people whom you could potentially employ. A minority of these people—but the minority from which the 80/20 practitioner will choose to hire—add a great deal more value than they cost. It follows that the greatest source of leverage is other people. To some extent, you can and should leverage off other people whom you do not employ: your allies. But you can obtain the most direct and complete leverage from the people you employ. 
    - #[[E: The most successful professional firms and corporations are those that outsource everything but what they are best at]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If their skill is marketing, they do not manufacture. If their real advantage is in research and development, they use third parties not just for making the goods, but for marketing and selling them. If they are best at volume manufacture of standardized products, they do not make “specials” or up-market varieties. If they are best at high-margin specials, they do not try their hand in the mass market. And so on. 
    - #[[E: Certain categories of investment, and certain investment strategies, are predictably much better than others at creating wealth]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - You are more likely to become wealthy, or to obtain the greatest increase in wealth, from investment income rather than from employment income. This means that there is a premium on accumulating enough money early on to fund investment. Accumulating your stake for entry to the investment world usually requires hard work and low spending: for a period, net income must be higher than spending. The only exceptions to this rule are acquisition of money from legacies or other gifts, marrying into a wealthy family, windfalls from lotteries or other forms of gambling, and crime. The first cannot easily be predicted, the third is so unlikely that it should be totally discounted, the fourth is not recommended, so only the second can be consciously planned and even then the outcome is uncertain.
        - Because of the compounding effects of investment, you can become rich either by starting to invest early in life, or by living a long time, or both. Starting early is the most controllable strategy. • As early as possible, develop a consistent, long-term investment strategy, based on principles that have worked well in the past. 
        - Koch’s 10 commandments of investment 
            - 1 Make your investment philosophy reflect your personality 
            - 2 Be proactive and unbalanced 
            - 3 Invest mainly in the stock market 
            - 4 Invest for the long term 
            - 5 Invest most when the market is low 
            - 6 If you can’t beat the market, track it 
            - 7 Build your investments on your expertise 
            - 8 Consider the merits of emerging markets 
            - 9 Cull your loss makers 
            - 10 Run your gains 
    - #[[E: Risk minimization is overrated]]  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Risk, it is said, is minimized by having a broad spread of investments in a wide range of different media, such as bonds, stocks, cash, real estate, gold, and collectibles. But risk minimization is overrated. If you want to become rich enough to change your future lifestyle, you need to attain above-average returns. The chances of doing this are much higher if you adopt an unbalanced portfolio. This means that you should have few investments: those that you are convinced will give high returns. And it also means that you should invest in one medium. 
        - Do not move in and out of individual stocks, or your share portfolio as a whole, very often. Unless they are clear losers, keep your stocks for many years. Buying and selling stocks is expensive as well as time consuming. If you possibly can, take a 10-year view or, even better, a 20-, 30-, or 50-year view. If you put money into stocks for the short term, you are really gambling rather than investing. If you are tempted to take the money out and spend it, you are deferring expenditure rather than investing. 
        - Do not buy when everyone else is and when everyone is convinced that the stock market can only go up. Instead, buy when everyone else is pessimistic. 
        - Use the price/earnings ratio (P/E) as the best single benchmark for deciding whether shares are expensive or cheap. The P/E of a share is its price divided by its after-tax earnings. For example, if a share is 250 cents and its earnings per share are 25 cents, the share is on a P/E of 10. If the share price goes up, in a period of optimism, to 500 cents, but the earnings per share are still 25 cents, the P/E is now 20. 
        - In general, a P/E of over 17 for the stock market as a whole is a danger signal. Do not invest heavily when the market is this high. A P/E of under 12 is a buy signal; one of under 10 a definite buy signal. 
        - Three policies must be followed by an investor in emerging markets. One is to invest only a small part of your total portfolio, up to 20 percent, in emerging markets. The second is to invest most of your emerging market funds only when the market is relatively low and the average P/E for the countries you are investing in is under 12. The third is to invest for the long term and only pull money out when the P/Es are relatively high. 
        - If any share falls by 15 percent (of the price you paid), sell it. Follow this rule rigorously and consistently. If you want to buy it back later at a lower price, wait until the price has stopped falling, for at least a number of days (and preferably weeks), before you reinvest. 
        - the 15 percent rule has to do with individual stocks, not with the market. If an individual stock falls by 15 percent, which is much more common than the market falling by the same amount, it should be sold. Whereas few, if any, fortunes have been lost by sticking to the stock market (or a broad portfolio of stocks) over the long term, a large number of fortunes have been lost by mistaken loyalty to one or a few declining stocks. For individual stocks, the best indication of the future trend is the current one. 
    - #[[E: For activities that are very ineffective at making you happy, think systematically of ways that you could enjoy them more]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - If this works, fine. If it doesn’t, think how to avoid these situations. 
        - There are many situations with which each of us typically copes badly. 
        - No doubt you have your own pressure points. Write them down: now! Consciously engineer your life to avoid them; write down how: now! Check each month how far you are succeeding. Congratulate yourself on each small avoidance victory. 
        - What we all need is a set of daily happiness habits, similar to (and in fact partially related to) our daily fitness or healthy eating regime. 
    - #[[E: Cultivate close friendships with a few happy friends]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - The 80/20 Principle predicts that most of the satisfaction you draw from all of your friends will be concentrated in your relationship with a small number of close friends. 
    - #[[E: Develop strong professional alliances with a small number of people whose company you enjoy]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - Not all your work or professional colleagues should become your friends; if so, you would spread your friendship too thinly. But a few should become close friends and allies; people whom you will go out of your way to support and who will do the same for you. 
    - #[[E: Evolve the lifestyle you and your partner want]].  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - This requires a harmonious balance between your work life, home life, and social life. It means that you live where you want to work, have the quality of life that you want, have time to attend to family and social affairs, and are equally happy at work and outside it. 
    - #[[E: Efficiency requires the 20 percent approach. But what is life-enhancing deserves a 200, 2,000, or 2,000,000 percent approach]]  [[The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less]] #Evergreens #Productivity #[[Business Future]]
        - When it comes to the essential parts of life, the 20 percent or less that defines our uniqueness and individual destiny, we should devote our energy and our very soul to such matters, without stinting on time, money, or any other means to that end. There is no limit to the amount of effort or time that is appropriate for what enhances—or even defines—our lives. So to answer the three concerns:  
            - Corner cutting. It’s only within the efficiency segment of our lives that we should aim to cut corners and do things lazily and fast. For anything life enhancing, we take the longest, deepest, or highest possible route. 
            - Sustainability. A sensible use of the principle requires a long-term view, and an awareness of potential unintended consequences if we assume that the current position with regard to effort and reward will not change. For example, 10 percent of customers may currently give us (say) 80 percent of profits. But maybe, if a new competitor focuses on our super-profitable customers, our profits won’t last. Moreover, hidden away within the 90 percent of marginal or unprofitable customers may be a fast-growth company that could, if carefully cultivated, end up being a new winning account. In the fishing example, too great a focus on the super-abundant waters, without building in some restraints to allow the fish to reproduce, leads to disaster. In the broader areas of life, too, our focus on what enhances our life needs to be long-term and intelligent. Skills and relationships require investment. We should be selective about which abilities and friends really matter, and then take time and extraordinarily patient effort to build the foundations of a lifetime commitment. No corner cutting here, and equally no instant gratification! It’s a mistake to work for the sake of work or to amass riches by doing something we hate. But it’s very wise to make a huge commitment to developing skills and relationships that make our lives different, enjoyable, and worthwhile. 
        - Work can fall into either the efficient or the life-enhancing category. Almost certainly, you have some work that falls into each. The trick is to do progressively less of the former and more of the latter, until you reach the happy state where work really is more fun than fun. Life outside work, too, almost certainly falls into both categories. The answer is the same. Spend less and less time and vitality on the efficiency box, and more and more on the life-enhancing box. 
        - We don’t want to be obsessed with efficiency, but we do want to dispose of the non-life-enhancing activities as easily and swiftly as possible. 
- Keywords:: #Books #Readit 
- Author:: [[Richard Koch]]
- Recommended by:: [[[UX Planet](https://uxplanet.org/the-7-best-ux-design-books-924efa6eacf9) · by fello]]
- Comments:
- Notes:
- Highlights:
