- Author:: [[Will Durant]]
- Recommended By:: [[Eric Jorgenson]]
- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- Author:: [[Will Durant]]
- Recommended By::
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: The first biological lesson of history is that life is competition]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Competition is not only the life of trade, it is the trade of life—peaceful when food abounds, violent when the mouths outrun the food. 
    - #[[E: If equality of educational opportunity can be established, democracy will be real and justified]]. 
    - #[[E: The second biological lesson of history is that life is selection]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - In the competition for food or mates or power some organisms succeed and some fail. In the struggle for existence some individuals are better equipped than others to meet the tests of survival. 
        - Like other departments of biology, history remains at bottom a natural selection of the fittest individuals and groups in a struggle wherein goodness receives no favors, misfortunes abound, and the final test is the ability to survive. 
        - Nature and history do not agree with our conceptions of good and bad; they define good as that which survives, and bad as that which goes under; 
    - #[[E: Freedom and equality are sworn and everlasting enemies]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - When one prevails the other dies. 
    - #[[E: Only the man who is below the average in economic ability desires equality]];  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Those who are conscious of superior ability desire freedom; and in the end superior ability has its way. 
    - #[[E: Utopias of equality are biologically doomed, and the best that the amiable philosopher can hope for is an approximate equality of legal justice and educational opportunity]].  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - A society in which all potential abilities are allowed to develop and function will have a survival advantage in the competition of groups. This competition becomes more severe as the destruction of distance intensifies the confrontation of states. 
    - #[[E: The third biological lesson of history is that life must breed]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Nature has no use for organisms, variations, or groups that cannot reproduce abundantly. She has a passion for quantity as prerequisite to the selection of quality; she likes large litters, and relishes the struggle that picks the surviving few; doubtless she looks on approvingly at the upstream race of a thousand sperms to fertilize one ovum. She is more interested in the species than in the individual, and makes little difference between civilization and barbarism. 
    - #[[E: If the human brood is too numerous for the food supply, Nature has three agents for restoring the balance: famine, pestilence, and war]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
    - #[[E: Evolution in man during recorded time has been social rather than biological]]: #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - It has proceeded not by heritable variations in the species, but mostly by economic, political, intellectual, and moral innovation transmitted to individuals and generations by imitation, custom, or education. Custom and tradition within a group correspond to type and heredity in the species, and to instincts in the individual; they are ready adjustments to typical and frequently repeated situations. New situations, however, do arise, requiring novel, unstereotyped responses; hence development, in the higher organisms, requires a capacity for experiment and innovation—the social correlates of variation and mutation. 
    - #[[E: Social evolution is an interplay of custom with origination]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Here the initiative individual—the “great man,” the “hero,” the “genius”—regains his place as a formative force in history. He grows out of his time and land, and is the product and symbol of events as well as their agent and voice; without some situation requiring a new response his new ideas would be untimely and impracticable. When he is a hero of action, the demands of his position and the exaltation of crisis develop and inflate him to such magnitude and powers as would in normal times have remained potential and untapped. But he is not merely an effect. Events take place through him as well as around him; his ideas and decisions enter vitally into the course of history.  
        - As submissive natures unite with masterful individuals to make the order and operation of a society, so the imitative majority follows the innovating minority, and this follows the originative individual, in adapting new responses to the demands of environment or survival. 
    - #[[E: The conservative who resists change is as valuable as the radical who proposes it]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - -perhaps as much more valuable as roots are more vital than grafts. It is good that new ideas should be heard, for the sake of the few that can be used; but it is also good that new ideas should be compelled to go through the mill of objection, opposition, and contumely; this is the trial heat which innovations must survive before being allowed to enter the human race. It is good that the old should resist the young, and that the young should prod the old; out of this tension, as out of the strife of the sexes and the classes, comes a creative tensile strength, a stimulated development, a secret and basic unity and movement of the whole. 
    - #[[E: Morals are the rules by which a society exhorts its members and associations to behavior consistent with its order, security, and growth]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Laws are the rules by which it seeks to compel.
        - A little knowledge of history stresses the variability of moral codes, and concludes that they are negligible because they differ in time and place, and sometimes contradict each other. A larger knowledge stresses the universality of moral codes, and concludes to their necessity. 
        - If we divide economic history into three stages—hunting, agriculture, industry—we may expect that the moral code of one stage will be changed in the next. 
    - #[[E: Pugnacity, brutality, greed, and sexual readiness were advantages in the struggle for existence]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Probably every vice was once a virtue—i.e., a quality making for the survival of the individual, the family, or the group. Man’s sins may be the relics of his rise rather than the stigmata of his fall. 
    - #[[E: Even the skeptical historian develops a humble respect for religion, since he sees it functioning, and seemingly indispensable, in every land and age]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - It was fear that first made the gods - fear of hidden forces in the earth, rivers, oceans, trees, winds, and sky. Religion became the propitiatory worship of these forces through offerings, sacrifice, incantation, and prayer. Only when priests used these fears and rituals to support morality and law did religion become a force vital and rival to the state. It told the people that the local code of morals and laws had been dictated by the gods. 
        - The replacement of Christian with secular institutions is the culminating and critical result of the Industrial Revolution. That states should attempt to dispense with theological supports is one of the many crucial experiments that bewilder our brains and unsettle our ways today. Laws which were once presented as the decrees of a god-given king are now frankly the confused commands of fallible men. Education, which was the sacred province of god-inspired priests, becomes the task of men and women shorn of theological robes and awe, and relying on reason and persuasion to civilize young rebels who fear only the policeman and may never learn to reason at all. 
        - One lesson of history is that religion has many lives, and a habit of resurrection. 
    - #[[E: Puritanism and paganism—the repression and the expression of the senses and desires - alternate in mutual reaction in history]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Generally religion and puritanism prevail in periods when the laws are feeble and morals must bear the burden of maintaining social order; skepticism and paganism (other factors being equal) progress as the rising power of law and government permits the decline of the church, the family, and morality without basically endangering the stability of the state. In our time the strength of the state has united with the several forces listed above to relax faith and morals, and to allow paganism to resume its natural sway. 
    - #[[E: Society was thouroughly remodelled by the Industrial Revolution]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - the Industrial Revolution brought with it democracy, feminism, birth control, socialism, the decline of religion, the loosening of morals, the liberation of literature from dependence upon aristocratic patronage, the replacement of romanticism by realism in fiction—and the economic interpretation of history. 
    - #[[E: The French Revolution was a result of the rise of the middle classes to economic leadership.]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - They needed legislative freedom for their enterprise and trade, and itched for social acceptance and political power. 
    - #[[E: Every economic system must sooner or later rely upon some form of the profit motive to stir individuals and groups to productivity]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Substitutes like slavery, police supervision, or ideological enthusiasm prove too unproductive, too expensive, or too transient. Normally and generally men are judged by their ability to produce—except in war, when they are ranked according to their ability to destroy. 
    - #[[E: Since practical ability differs from person to person, the majority of such abilities, in nearly all societies, is gathered in a minority of men]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - The concentration of wealth is a natural result of this concentration of ability, and regularly recurs in history. The rate of concentration varies (other factors being equal) with the economic freedom permitted by morals and the laws. Despotism may for a time retard the concentration; democracy, allowing the most liberty, accelerates it. 
        - In progressive societies the concentration may reach a point where the strength of number in the many poor rivals the strength of ability in the few rich; then the unstable equilibrium generates a critical situation, which history has diversely met by legislation redistributing wealth or by revolution distributing poverty. 
        - the concentration of wealth is natural and inevitable, and is periodically alleviated by violent or peaceable partial redistribution. In this view all economic history is the slow heartbeat of the social organism, a vast systole and diastole of concentrating wealth and compulsive recirculation. 
        - Every advance in the complexity of the economy puts an added premium upon superior ability, and intensifies the concentration of wealth, responsibility, and political power. 
    - #[[E: Other factors equal, internal liberty varies inversely as external danger]].  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
    - #[[E: Since men love freedom, and the freedom of individuals in society requires some regulation of conduct, the first condition of freedom is its limitation]]  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Make it absolute and it dies in chaos. So the prime task of government is to establish order; organized central force is the sole alternative to incalculable and disruptive force in private hands. Power naturally converges to a center, for it is ineffective when divided, diluted, and spread, 
    - #[[E: Monarchy is the dominant form of government in history. Democracies, by contrast, have been hectic interludes]].  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Most governments have been oligarchies—ruled by a minority, chosen either by birth, as in aristocracies, or by a religious organization, as in theocracies, or by wealth, as in democracies. It is unnatural (as even Rousseau saw) for a majority to rule, for a majority can seldom be organized for united and specific action, and a minority can. If the majority of abilities is contained in a minority of men, minority government is as inevitable as the concentration of wealth; the majority can do no more than periodically throw out one minority and set up another. 
    - #[[E: To break sharply with the past is to court the madness that may follow the shock of sudden blows or mutilations]].  #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - As the sanity of the individual lies in the continuity of his memories, so the sanity of a group lies in the continuity of its traditions; in either case a break in the chain invites a neurotic reaction, as in the Paris massacres of September, 1792.
    - #[[E: Violent revolutions do not so much redistribute wealth as destroy it]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Wealth is an order and procedure of production and exchange rather than an accumulation of (mostly perishable) goods, and is a trust (the “credit system”) in men and institutions rather than in the intrinsic value of paper money or checks. 
        - There may be a redivision of the land, but the natural inequality of men soon re-creates an inequality of possessions and privileges, and raises to power a new minority with essentially the same instincts as in the old. 
    - #[[E: The only real revolution is in the enlightenment of the mind and the improvement of character]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - The only real emancipation is individual, and the only real revolutionists are philosophers and saints. 
    - #[[E: Democracy is the most difficult of all forms of government, since it requires the widest spread of intelligence]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - We did not become more intelligent when we made ourselves sovereign. Education has spread, but intelligence is perpetually retarded by the fertility of the simple. A cynic remarked that “you mustn’t enthrone ignorance just because there is so much of it.” However, ignorance is not long enthroned, for it lends itself to manipulation by the forces that mold public opinion. It may be true, as Lincoln supposed, that “you can’t fool all the people all the time,” but you can fool enough of them to rule a large country. 
    - #[[E: All deductions having been made, democracy has done less harm, and more good, than any other form of government]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - It gave to human existence a zest and camaraderie that outweighed its pitfalls and defects. It gave to thought and science and enterprise the freedom essential to their operation and growth. It broke down the walls of privilege and class, and in each generation it raised up ability from every rank and place. 
    - #[[E: If equality of educational opportunity can be established, democracy will be real and justified]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Though men cannot be equal, their access to education and opportunity can be made more nearly equal. The rights of man are not rights to office and power, but the rights of entry into every avenue that may nourish and test a man’s fitness for office and power. A right is not a gift of God or nature but a privilege which it is good for the group that the individual should have. 
    - #[[E: War is one of the constants of history, and has not diminished with civilization or democracy]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - In the last 3,421 years of recorded history only 268 have seen no war. We have acknowledged war as at present the ultimate form of competition and natural selection in the human species. “Polemos pater panton” said Heracleitus; war, or competition, is the father of all things, the potent source of ideas, inventions, institutions, and states. Peace is an unstable equilibrium, which can be preserved only by acknowledged supremacy or equal power. The causes of war are the same as the causes of competition among individuals: acquisitiveness, pugnacity, and pride; the desire for food, land, materials, fuels, mastery. The state has our instincts without our restraints. The individual submits to restraints laid upon him by morals and laws, and agrees to replace combat with conference, because the state guarantees him basic protection in his life, property, and legal rights. The state itself acknowledges no substantial restraints, either because it is strong enough to defy any interference with its will or because there is no superstate to offer it basic protection, and no international law or moral code wielding effective force. In the individual, pride gives added vigor in the competitions of life; in the state, nationalism gives added force in diplomacy and war. When the states of Europe freed themselves from papal overlordship and protection, each state encouraged nationalism as a supplement to its army and navy. If it foresaw conflict with any particular country it fomented, in its people, hatred of that country, and formulated catchwords to bring that hatred to a lethal point; meanwhile it stressed its love of peace. 
    - #[[E: Civilization is defined as social order promoting cultural creation]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - It is political order secured through custom, morals, and law, and economic order secured through a continuity of production and exchange; it is cultural creation through freedom and facilities for the origination, expression, testing, and fruition of ideas, letters, manners, and arts. It is an intricate and precarious web of human relationships, laboriously built and readily destroyed. 
    - #[[E: Inequality grows in an expanding economy]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Thus, a society may find itself divided between a cultured minority and a majority of men and women too unfortunate by nature or circumstance to inherit or develop standards of excellence and taste. As this majority grows it acts as a cultural drag upon the minority; its ways of speech, dress, recreation, feeling, judgment, and thought spread upward, and internal barbarization by the majority is part of the price that the minority pays for its control of educational and economic opportunity. 
    - #[[E: Caught in the interval between one moral code and the next, an unmoored generation surrenders itself to luxury, corruption, and a restless disorder of family and morals]], #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - Only a remnant may cling to old restraints and ways. Few souls feel any longer that “it is beautiful and honorable to die for one’s country.” A failure of leadership may allow a state to weaken itself with internal strife. At the end of the process a decisive defeat in war may bring a final blow, or barbarian invasion from without may combine with barbarism welling up from within to bring the civilization to a close. 
    - #[[E: Since we there has been no substantial change in man’s nature during historic times,  technological advances are merely new means of achieving old ends]] #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
        - The acquisition of goods, the pursuit of one sex by the other (or by the same), the overcoming of competition, the fighting of wars. One of the discouraging discoveries of our disillusioning century is that science is neutral: it will kill for us as readily as it will heal, and will destroy for us more readily than it can build. 
    - #[[E: History is so indifferently rich that a case for almost any conclusion from it can be made by a selection of instances]]. #History #Evergreens [[The Lessons of History]]
