- Author:: [[Barry Michels]] and [[Phil Stutz]]
- Recommended By:: [[Brian Johnson]]
- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- Author:: [[Phil Stutz]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books  #Readwise
- ### Highlights: 
    - #[[E: Some individuals have a sense of purpose which enables them to maintain personal discipline in the face of pain and difficulty]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - A few rare individuals refuse to live limited lives. They drive through tremendous amounts of pain—from rejections and failures to shorter moments of embarrassment and anxiety. They also handle the small, tedious pain required for personal discipline, forcing themselves to do things we all know we should do but don’t—like exercising, eating right, and staying organized. Because they avoid nothing, they can pursue their highest aspirations. They seem more alive than the rest of us. They have something that gives them the strength to endure pain—a sense of purpose. What they do in the present, no matter how painful, has meaning in terms of what they want for the future. The avoider only cares about immediate gratification; he takes no responsibility for his future. A sense of purpose doesn’t come from thinking about it. It comes from taking action that moves you toward the future. The moment you do this, you activate a force more powerful than the desire to avoid pain. We call this the [[Force of Forward Motion]]. 
    - #[[E:The central task of an adult is to find her purpose in the world]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - This purpose is different for each person—finding it is an individual matter. The Force of Forward Motion only works in an individual if she consciously chooses to use it—and accepts the pain that comes with it. 
    - #[[E: The Reversal of Desire exercise is a way to deal with mental pain]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens [[Reversal of Desire]]
        - See the pain appear in front of you as a cloud. Scream silently at the cloud, “BRING IT ON!” Feel an intense desire for the pain to move you into the cloud. Scream silently, “I LOVE PAIN!” as you keep moving forward. Go so deeply into the pain you’re at one with it. You will feel the cloud spit you out and close behind you. Say inwardly with conviction, “PAIN SETS ME FREE!” As you leave the cloud, feel yourself propelled forward into a realm of pure light. 
        - Learn to go through the three steps quickly but intensely. Don’t just do it once. Repeat the steps over and over until you feel you’ve thoroughly converted all the pain to energy. You can remember each step by the phrase that goes with it.       
            - 1. “Bring it on.”       
            - 2. “I love pain.”       
            - 3. “Pain sets me free.” 
        - For every tool, there is a set of easily recognizable moments that call for its use. We call these “cues,” just like a cue that triggers an actor to say his lines. Use the tool immediately every time you recognize a cue. For the [[Reversal of Desire]], the first cue is obvious—right before you’re about to do something you want to avoid. Let’s say you have to call someone who intimidates you, or you really need to get down to work, but you feel restless and distracted. At these moments, focus on the exact pain you’d feel if you began the action. Use the tool on that pain (multiple times if necessary) until you can feel the energy of the final step carrying you forward. Don’t stop to think—let it lead you right into taking the action you were avoiding. The second cue isn’t as obvious because it occurs in your thoughts. We all share the same bad habit. When we have to do something we find extremely unpleasant, we start thinking about it rather than doing it: Why do I have to do it? I can’t do it, I’ll do it next week, etc. Thinking can’t help you act in the face of pain; in fact, it usually makes you even more avoidant. The only way your thoughts can help you master pain is if they trigger you to use the [[Reversal of Desire]]. This is the second cue: each time you catch yourself thinking about the dreaded task, stop thinking and use the tool. This cue trains you to use the tool right now. No matter how far away the action is, the force you need to move forward can be generated only in the present. Each time you use this second cue, you’re making a deposit in an invisible bank account; but you’re depositing energy, not money—eventually you’ll build up enough to act. 
        - The first step is to learn to experience fear without the mental image of the dreaded future event. Focus all your awareness on how the fear feels right now, in the present. When you’ve separated fear from what you’re afraid of in the future, it becomes just another kind of pain you process with the [[Reversal of Desire]]. 
        - Only when you desire fear, will you be able to take action in its presence—which is what courage consists of. 
        - You can’t hoard courage. Fear returns quickly, along with the image of the dreaded future event, taking you out of the present. If you’re serious about living courageously, condition yourself to use the [[Reversal of Desire]] the moment you feel fear. 
        - The tool trains you to desire the pain you associate with a particular event—not the event itself. That’s why the instructions direct you to “forget the situation and focus on the pain.” 
        - There may be many positive things in your future—great joy and fulfillment. But inevitably, life will never exempt you from facing more pain. Once you accept this, your goal will no longer be for pain to stop; it will be to increase your tolerance for it—which is exactly what the [[Reversal of Desire]] will do for you. 
        - The [[Reversal of Desire]] enables you to expand your professional and social circle. We all know people we’d like to have a connection with but feel insecure about approaching. If you’re honest with yourself, you question whether you’re really on their level. It’s easier to associate only with people who are no threat. This is really a form of avoidance that keeps you from living as fully as you can. 
        - The [[Reversal of Desire]] enables you to wield authority. One of the hardest things about being a leader—whether you’re the head of a department, an entire business, or even a family—is that you have to make decisions that make people unhappy. That’s why they say “it’s lonely at the top.” An effective leader can tolerate the displeasure of others. 
        - The [[Reversal of Desire]] overcomes phobias. A phobia is an irrational fear or dislike of something—like spiders or tight spaces. Its effect is to put certain parts of life out of your reach. Even in mild forms, it can interfere with your functioning at work and in relationships. The tool gives you the courage to put yourself in situations that your anxiety had placed off limits. Life can open up again. 
        - The [[Reversal of Desire]] allows you to develop skills that require a disciplined, long-term commitment. The biggest difference between those who succeed and those who fail at any endeavor is their level of commitment. Most people would like to be committed. But in practice, commitment requires an endless series of small painful actions. When a person has no way to deal with that pain, his commitment falls apart. 
        - The [[Reversal of Desire]] gives you a new perspective on family dynamics that have been in place since childhood. Try the following: Pick something that you got into the habit of avoiding as a child. What was the specific nature of the pain you were avoiding? Now, close your eyes, project yourself into that child, and use the [[Reversal of Desire]] on that pain. Imagine yourself as a child using that tool—automatically, every time you want to avoid, day after day, year after year. See if you get a sense of how your life might be different today—not the outward circumstances, but inside yourself. How does it feel different to be you? 
        - [[Reversal of Desire]] Summary 
            - Use the [[Reversal of Desire]] when you need to take an action you’ve been avoiding. We avoid doing the things that are most painful for us, preferring to live in a Comfort Zone that severely limits what we get out of life. The tool lets you act in the face of pain and helps you get your life moving again. What You’re Fighting Against Pain avoidance is a powerful habit. You get immediate relief when you defer something painful. The penalty—helpless regret at a life you wasted—won’t come until far in the future. This is why most people can’t move forward and live life to the fullest. 
            - Cues to Use the Tool         
                - 1. The first cue comes when you have to do something uncomfortable and you feel fear or resistance. Use the tool right before you act.         
                - 2. The second cue occurs whenever you think about doing something painful or difficult. If you use the tool every time you have these thoughts, you’ll build a force that will allow you to act when the time comes. 
            - The Tool in Brief         
                - 1. Focus on the pain you’re avoiding; see it appear in front of you as a cloud. Silently scream, “Bring it on!” to demand the pain; you want it because it has great value. 
                - 2. Scream silently, “I love pain!” as you keep moving forward. Move so deeply into the pain you’re at one with it.         
                - 3. Feel the cloud spit you out and close behind you. Say inwardly, “Pain sets me free!” As you leave the cloud, feel yourself propelled forward into a realm of pure light. 
            - The higher force that drives all of life expresses itself in relentless Forward Motion. The only way to connect to this force is to be in forward motion yourself. But to do that, you must face pain and be able to move past it. The [[Reversal of Desire]] lets you do this. Once the tool connects you to the [[Force of Forward Motion]], the world is less intimidating, your energy is greater, and the future seems more hopeful. 
    - #[[E: Your experience of pain changes relative to how you react to it]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - When you move toward it, pain shrinks. When you move away from it, pain grows. If you flee from it, pain pursues you like a monster in a dream. If you confront the monster, it goes away. 
    - #[[E: The moment one definitely commits oneself, then Providence moves too]] #Evergreens [[The Tools]] #Philosophy #Quotes by [[William Hutchison Murray]]
        - raising in one’s favor all manner of unforeseen incidents and meetings and material assistance, which no man could have dreamt would have come his way. 
    - #[[E: Adversity is the “weight” against which you develop your inner strength. ]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - Inner strength comes only to those who move forward in the face of adversity. 
    - #[[E: The victim thinks he knows how the universe should work. When it doesn’t treat him the way he “deserves,” he concludes the world is against him]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - This becomes his rationale for giving up and retreating to his Comfort Zone where he can stop trying. 
        - We’re trapped because of a universal human expectation that the world will treat us fairly. This is a cherished, childish assumption—“If I’m good, the world will be good to me.” We should know better—the world violates this assumption every day. Someone cuts you off on the highway, a customer is rude to you. But despite this overwhelming evidence, we cling to our childish views. As long as you insist that life treat you fairly, when someone wrongs you you’ll demand that the scales of justice be balanced immediately. You’ll dig in your heels and refuse to budge until this happens. This is why the Maze almost always involves fantasies of revenge or restitution. You’re engaged in a futile attempt to restore fairness to your world. Most of the time you’re unaware of this expectation that people will treat you fairly. But it’s there, in the background—which means that, at any moment, you’re standing right outside the mouth of the Maze, primed and ready to be swallowed up. All it takes is some injustice—any injustice—and before you have time to think, you’re trapped and can’t get out. 
    - #[[E: The worship of outer success breeds a selfish fixation on achieving your own goals. Inner greatness, on the other hand, develops only when life makes your goals impossible]].  #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - You are then faced with a personal, private struggle to reconcile your plans with what life has planned for you. You are forced to become selfless in the best sense—to devote your life to something higher than yourself.
    - #[[E: Our whole culture is based on the lie that it’s possible to be certain about the future]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - Go to the right school, eat the right foods, buy the right stocks, and your future is guaranteed. To develop courage, you have to give up this illusion of future certainty. This frees you to focus on the present—the only place you can find the courage to act. 
    - #[[E: Outflow is an infinite, spiritual force that gives of itself without restraint]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens [[Force of Outflow]]
        - It’s like sunlight, shining equally on everything and everyone. The moment you feel this force, you’re lifted above your petty hurt feelings. You no longer need a remedy from the offending person because [[Force of Outflow]] is its own reward. Unlike fairness, it’s a reward that has real value. It lets you go on with your life. 
        - Tapping into [[Force of Outflow]] doesn’t mean giving in or being passive in the face of wrongdoing. We’re not counseling that you roll over and let people mistreat you. [[Force of Outflow]] changes your inner state; in an outer sense you’re still free to respond however you want to. In fact, you’ll find that by tapping into this higher force, you’ll be free to be more aggressive should you choose to confront someone. As long as you’re in the Maze, you still need something from the person who wronged you. This gives that person an intimidating power over you. In [[Force of Outflow]], connected to a higher force, there’s no one to be afraid of. 
    - #[[E: The Active Love exercise awakens the Outflow force]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens [[Active Love]] [[Force of Outflow]]
        - Imagine that you’re surrounded by a warm, liquid light that is infinitely loving. Feel your heart expand far beyond you to become one with this love. As you bring your heart back to normal size, this infinite energy concentrates itself inside your chest. It’s an unstoppably loving force that wants to give itself away. Focus on the person who’s triggered your anger. If they’re not physically in front of you (usually they’re not) then visualize their presence. Send all the love in your chest directly to them; hold nothing back. It’s like completely expelling a deep breath. Follow the love as it leaves your chest. When it enters the other person at their solar plexus, don’t just watch. Feel it enter. This will give you the sense you’re completely at one with them. Now relax—you’ll feel yourself again surrounded by infinite love, which will return to you all the energy you gave away. You’ll feel filled up and at peace. 
        - Each of the three steps has a name to help you remember it. 
            - The first step is called “**concentration**.” You’re gathering up all the love that surrounds you and concentrating it in your heart—which is the only organ that can find it and hold it. 
            - The second step is called “**transmission**.” In this step your heart functions as a conduit, transmitting love from a higher place into this world. 
            - The real power of the tool is in the third step, which is called “**penetration**.” When you feel the love you’re transmitting enter the other person, there’s a sense of total acceptance; an acceptance that comes only with the experience of oneness. This is a victory—you’ve embraced injustice completely and are free to move on from it. With this new power, no one has the power to put you in the Maze. No one can stop you. 
        - [[Active Love]] trains you to accept others as they are. Everyone in your life is imperfect, either because of something they’ve done in the past or something they can’t change in the present. Fixating on these things destroys relationships. You need a tool that allows you to accept people despite their flaws. 
    - [[Active Love]] summary
        - Use [[Active Love]]  When someone enrages you and you can’t get the person out of your head. You may replay what he or she did or fantasize about getting revenge. This is the Maze. It puts your life on hold while the world moves forward without you. 
        - You’re Fighting Against the childish belief that people will treat you “fairly.” You refuse to move forward with life until the wrong you experienced is rectified. Since that rarely happens, you’re trapped. 
        - Cues to Use the Tool         
            - 1. Use [[Active Love]] the moment someone does something that angers you. 
            - 2. Use it when you find yourself reliving a personal injustice whether it was in the recent or distant past.         
            - 3. Use it to prepare yourself to confront a difficult person. 
        - The Tool in Brief         
            - 1. Concentration: Feel your heart expand to encompass the world of infinite love surrounding you. When your heart contracts back to normal size, it concentrates all this love inside your chest.         
            - 2. Transmission: Send all the love from your chest to the other person, holding nothing back.         
            - 3. Penetration: When the love enters the other person, don’t just watch, feel it enter; sense a oneness with him or her. Then relax, and you’ll feel all the energy you gave away returned to you. 
            - The Higher Force You’re Using 
                - [[Active Love]] creates the [[Force of Outflow]]. [[Force of Outflow]] is the force that accepts everything as it is. This dissolves your sense of unfairness so you can give without reservation. Once you’re in that state, nothing can make you withdraw. You are the chief beneficiary; you become unstoppable. 
    - #[[E: Connecting to others is an essential ingredient in success]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - The most important opportunities in life come from other people. It would be nice if they granted those opportunities based on merit; a reward for talent or hard work. But that’s not the way the world works. People give you opportunities because they feel connected to you. 
    - #[[E: The “Shadow” is everything we don’t want to be but fear we are, represented in a single image. It’s called the Shadow because it follows us wherever we go]]. #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - The Shadow is the source of one of the most basic human conflicts. Everyone wants to feel that as an individual we have value. But when we look inside ourselves, we see the Shadow and we’re ashamed. Our immediate reaction is to turn away—to look outside ourselves for some evidence of our worth. This takes the form of looking to others for approval and validation. 
    - #[[E: When you’re connected to the Force of Self-Expression, a part of you speaks that’s usually silent. You’re speaking from your deepest, inner self.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens 
        - This inner self has its own authority that’s not dependent on the approval of others. Children naturally speak and act in harmony with this inner self. That’s how they’re able to express themselves with such abandon. 
    - #[[E: The Inner Authority exercise creates a bond betweeen you and your Shadow]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - In order to use **Inner Authority**, you need to be able to see an image of your Shadow. You’ve already seen it once; in the section on the Shadow, you projected your insecure feelings out in front of you until they formed a being you could see. Try doing the same thing again. Don’t worry about getting the “right” image; it will continue evolving anyway. What’s most important is that you feel a real presence in front of you. Practice conjuring up the Shadow until it becomes easy. 
        - Imagine that you’re standing in front of an audience of one or many. See an image of your Shadow off to one side, facing you. Ignore the audience completely and focus all of your attention on the Shadow. Feel an unbreakable bond between the two of you—as a unit you’re fearless. Together, you and the Shadow forcefully turn toward the audience and silently command them to “LISTEN!” Feel the authority that comes when you and your Shadow speak with one voice. 
        - The tool consists of three steps: 
            - projecting the Shadow image, 
            - feeling a bond with it, and then 
            - silently commanding them to listen as you turn to face the audience. 
        - Practice these steps until you can move through them quickly. You want the steps to become second nature, so that you can use them in front of people, even while you’re speaking. 
        - **Inner Authority** should be used any time you feel the pressure to perform. This is much more common than you think if you define a performance as any situation where you’re subject to the judgments and reactions of others. This could take the form of a job interview, sales meeting, presentation, or an awkward social situation such as a blind date or big party. Calling such instances performances doesn’t mean you have to put on an act. In fact, the goal is not to try to gain the approval of the audience. Rather, you use the tool to overcome that pressure and express yourself freely. 
        - Learning how to use **Inner Authority** is like gradually increasing the weights you lift in the gym; it requires a steady buildup. But you also need a cue to remember when to use the tool in your daily life. That ongoing cue is performance anxiety. 
        - Our need to please an audience is a deeply ingrained habit. The best way to break the habit is to replace it with a healthier one; that means using **Inner Authority** every chance you get. If you do this consistently, you train yourself to rely on your inner self, not on the reactions of others. 
        - The Shadow makes true human connection possible—it’s the part of us we all share. Without it, we exaggerate our differences from others; we feel separate from them. Relationships—between different individuals, religions, nations—can work only when we use our Shadows to create a universal bond. Doing this puts us in a state where even opponents can acknowledge the humanity in each other. It’s the only way we can enjoy the freedom to be different and still coexist with one another. 
        - The Shadow is an image of everything you don’t want to be. 
    - #[[E: Inner Authority lets you express need and vulnerability]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - Many people, especially males, hide behind a facade that says they have life under control and need nothing from others. Life has a way of breaking down this facade and putting you in a position where you must ask for help. Those who can’t ask for help risk losing everything. 
    - #[[E: The way you communicate, especially the emotion you express, is more important than the words you use.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - When you speak without emotion, you can’t have enough impact on others to form a real connection. 
    - #[[E: Writer’s block happens when writers become more interested in the outcome of their efforts than in the process of writing.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - It usually takes the form of a frustrated attempt to make their work perfect and harsh self-criticism when they fail. 
    - [[Inner Authority]] summary
        - Use [[Inner Authority]] in intimidating situations, when you find it difficult to express yourself or even connect with other people. These are moments when you “freeze,” become wooden or stiff, unable to express yourself in a natural, spontaneous way. Underlying this is an irrational sense of insecurity. The tool allows you to overcome the insecurity and be yourself. 
        - What You’re Fighting Against 
            - Insecurity is a universal but badly misunderstood human trait. We think we know what’s making us insecure—our appearance, level of education, or socio-economic status. In fact, there’s something deep inside us that is the cause of all insecurity. It’s called the Shadow—the embodiment of all our negative traits—and we’re terrified that someone will see it. As a consequence, we expend a lot of energy hiding it, which makes it impossible for us to be ourselves. The tool gives us a new way to deal with the problem of having a Shadow. 
        - Cues to Use the Tool         
            - 1. Whenever you feel performance anxiety. This could be triggered by social events, confrontations, speaking in public.         
            - 2. Use the tool right before the event as well as during it.         
            - 3. A less-obvious cue would be when you’re anticipating the event and worrying about it. 
        - The Tool in Brief         
            - 1. Standing in front of any kind of audience, see your Shadow off to one side, facing you. (It works just as well with an imaginary audience or an audience composed of only one person.) Ignore the audience completely and focus all of your attention on the Shadow. Feel an unbreakable bond between the two of you—as a unit you’re fearless. 
            - 2. Together, you and the Shadow forcefully turn toward the audience and silently command them to “LISTEN!” Feel the authority that comes when you and your Shadow speak with one voice. 
        - The Higher Force You’re Using 
            - [[The Force of Self-Expression]] allows us to reveal ourselves in a truthful, genuine way—without caring about others’ approval. It speaks through us with unusual clarity and authority, but it also expresses itself nonverbally, like when an athlete is “in the zone.” In adults, this force gets buried in the Shadow. The tool, by connecting you to the Shadow, enables you to resurrect the force and have it flow through you. 
    - #[[E: The Grateful Flow exercise awakens the higher force of Gratefulness]]  #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens [[Grateful Flow]]
        - Pick out things in your life you can be grateful for—particularly things you’d normally take for granted. Say them to yourself silently, slowly enough to feel the value of each one. “I’m grateful for my eyesight; I’m grateful I have hot water,” etc. You should do this until you’ve mentioned at least five items—it takes less than thirty seconds. Feel the slight strain of your effort to find these items. You should feel the gratefulness you express flowing upward, directly from your heart. Then, when you’ve finished mentioning the specific items, your heart should continue to generate gratefulness, this time without words. The energy you are now giving out is the [[Grateful Flow]]. As this energy emanates from your heart, your chest will soften and open. In this state you’ll feel yourself approaching an overwhelming presence, filled with the power of infinite giving. You’ve made a connection to the Source. 
    - #[[E: Worry becomes uncontrollable when we try to alleviate it by thinking]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - There’s almost no one—from the most boastful to the most self-effacing—who doesn’t succumb to worry. Deep down inside, we all fear that the universe is far beyond our control. And in a very primal way, we take refuge in the only activity that seems to offer a sense of power—thinking. The paradox is that it’s exactly then that our thoughts spiral into uncontrollable worry. 
    - #[[E: judgments, especially repeated harsh judgments, send an energy into the world that alienates others.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens
        - When we judge others, we kid ourselves that what we think privately has no effect on those around us. The truth is that judgments, especially repeated harsh judgments, send an energy into the world that alienates others. You can’t fake a nonjudgmental attitude; you actually have to eliminate the judgments themselves. 
    - [[Grateful Flow]] Summary 
        - Use [[Grateful Flow]] When your mind is filled with worry, self-hatred, or any other form of negative thinking, you’ve been taken over by the Black Cloud. It limits what you can do with your life, deprives your loved ones of what is best about you. Life becomes a struggle to survive instead of the fulfillment of great promise. 
        - What You’re Fighting Against 
            - The unconscious delusion that negative thoughts can control the universe. Because we think the universe is indifferent to us, we cling to the sense of control negative thinking gives us. 
        - Cues to Use the Tool 
            - 1. Use the [[Grateful Flow]] immediately whenever you are attacked by negative thoughts. If unchallenged, negative thinking will just get stronger. 
            - 2. Use the [[Grateful Flow]] any time your mind becomes undirected—when you’re on “hold” during a phone call, stuck in traffic, or standing in line at the market. 
            - 3. You can even make the tool part of your daily schedule. That turns specific times (waking up, going to sleep, mealtimes) into cues. 
        - The Tool in Brief 
            - 1. Start by silently stating to yourself specific things in your life you’re grateful for, particularly items you’d normally take for granted. You can also include bad things that aren’t happening. Go slowly so you really feel the gratefulness for each item. Don’t use the same items each time you use the tool. You should feel a slight strain from having to come up with new ideas. 
            - 2. After about thirty seconds, stop thinking and focus on the physical sensation of gratefulness. You’ll feel it coming directly from your heart. This energy you are giving out is the [[Grateful Flow]]. 
            - 3. As this energy emanates from your heart, your chest will soften and open. In this state you will feel an overwhelming presence approach you, filled with the power of infinite giving. You’ve made a connection to [[The Source]]. 
        - The Higher Force You’re Using 
            - Far from being indifferent to us, there’s a higher force in the universe that created us and remains intimately involved with our well-being. We call that higher force [[The Source]]. The experience of its overwhelming power dissolves all negativity. But without Gratefulness, we can’t perceive [[The Source]]. 
    - #[[E: To act right now requires a sense of urgency. But urgency is uncomfortable. The only time we feel it is when we’re in jeopardy of losing something important]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens 
        - Examples: a job, a relationship, physical safety. 
    - #[[E: Willpower is awakened by Jeopardy]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens   [[Force of Willpower]] [[Jeopardy]]
        - Imagine you can see far into the future. See yourself lying on your deathbed. This older self knows how crucial the present moment is, because he’s run out of them. You see him rouse himself from his bed and scream at you not to waste the present moment. You feel a deep, hidden fear that you’ve been squandering your life. This creates an urgent pressure to use—right now—the basic tool you selected above. 
    - #[[E: The consumer expects a reward for the slightest effort—or better, for no effort at all. He cares only about what he gets from the world, not about what he might add to it.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens 
        - Living on the surface, jumping from thing to thing, his energy is diffused, like milk spreading across a tabletop. He makes no impact on the world; when his time on earth is over, it’s as if he never lived. 
    - #[[E: Everything the creator does is with the intention of making an impact on the world.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens 
        - His code ensures this: He doesn’t accept the world as he finds it; he brings things into the world that aren’t already there. He doesn’t follow the herd; he sets his own course. He ignores the reactions of others. He resists superficial distractions. He remains focused on his goals even if he has to sacrifice his immediate gratification. 
    - [[Jeopardy]] summary
        - Use [[Jeopardy]] to generate the [[Force of Willpower]] required not to quit using the tools.
            - No matter how effective the tools have been, you’ll find yourself quitting them. Not only will quitting stop your progress, it will destroy all the gains you’ve made up until this point. This is the fundamental obstacle every reader faces. 
        - What You’re Fighting Against 
            - The illusion that you can obtain a “magical something” that will exonerate you from using the tools. This is reinforced day and night by the consumer culture that surrounds you. The illusion always leads to the same result: you quit. In success, you think the tools are no longer necessary; and in failure, you’re too demoralized to use them. 
        - Cues to Use the Tool 
            - 1. In any situation where you know you need a tool but, for whatever reason, can’t get yourself to use one. 
            - 2. When you feel you’ve grown beyond the need for the tools. The Tool in Brief See yourself lying on your deathbed. Having run out of time, this older self screams at you not to waste the present moment. You feel a deep, hidden fear that you’ve been squandering your life. This creates an urgent desire to use whichever basic tool you need at that moment. 
        - The Higher Force You’re Using 
            - You can’t overcome the tendency to quit by thinking about it. You need a higher force. We call that force the [[Force of Willpower]]. It’s the one higher force you must create yourself; all the universe can do is provide a challenge that demands you generate it. 
    - #[[E: The driving force of spiritual evolution is personal problems.]] #Philosophy #[[Psychology]] [[The Tools]] #Evergreens 
        - The ongoing sense that problems are meaningful is a fundamental difference between a consumer and a creator. A consumer feels that life is only meaningful when his needs are being gratified. Problems, because they are un-gratifying, inevitably destroy the consumer’s sense of purpose. In contrast, a creator has a sense of meaning that can’t be destroyed—he insists on seeing problems as driving him toward something better, something higher in himself. Far from destroying his sense of meaning, problems actually reinforce it. 
