- Keywords:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- Author:: [[Kevin Simler & Robin Hanson]]
- Book length ( from Audible):: 10:26
- Highlights
    - #[[E:  We deceive ourselves in order better to be able to deceive others.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - People are judging us all the time. They want to know whether we’ll make good friends, allies, lovers, or leaders. 
        - One of the important things they’re judging is our motives. Why do we behave the way we do? Do we have others’ best interests at heart, or are we entirely selfish?  Because others are judging us, we’re eager to look good. So we emphasize our pretty motives and downplay our ugly ones. It’s not lying, exactly, but neither is it perfectly honest.  This applies not just to our words, but also to our thoughts, which might seem odd. Why can’t we be honest with ourselves? The answer is that our thoughts aren’t as private as we imagine. In many ways, conscious thought is a rehearsal of what we’re ready to say to others. As Trivers puts it, “We deceive ourselves the better to deceive others.”  
        - Self-deception works because other people are attempting to read our minds and react based on what they find (or what they think they find). In deceiving ourselves, then, we’re often acting to deceive and manipulate others. We might be hoping to intimidate them (like the Madman), earn their trust (like the Loyalist), change their beliefs (like the Cheerleader), or throw them off our trail (like the Cheater)
        - Every time we give a reason, there’s a risk we’re just making things up. Every “because” clause, every answer to a “Why?” question, every justification or explanation of a motive—every one of these is suspect. Not all will turn out to be rationalizations, but any of them could be, and a great many are.
    - #[[E:  In many ways, conscious thought is a rehearsal of what we’re ready to say to others.]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: Our ancestors got smart primarily in order to compete against each other in a variety of social and political scenarios]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: From the perspective of evolution, mating, not survival, is the name of the game]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
    - #[[E: Social status among humans actually comes in two flavors: dominance and prestige.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - Dominance is the kind of status we get from being able to intimidate others—think Vladimir Putin or Kim Jong-un. Dominance is won by force, through aggression and punishment. In the presence of a dominant person, our behavior is governed by avoidance instincts: fear, submission, and appeasement.  Prestige, however, is the kind of status we get from doing impressive things or having impressive traits—think Meryl Streep or Albert Einstein. Our behavior around prestigious people is governed by approach instincts. We’re attracted to them and want to spend time around them.
        - Although there are many different ways to look at prestige, we can treat it as synonymous with “one’s value as an ally.”
    - #[[E: Our competitions for prestige often produce positive side effects such as art, science, and technological innovation]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - {{embed: ((AVJ3YhLt3))}}
    - #[[E: Without the ability to form teams and work together toward shared goals, a species’ “political” life will be stunted at the level of individual competition]]  #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - Every chicken for itself, pecking at every other chicken. But add just a dash of cooperation to the mix, and suddenly a species’ political life begins to bloom.
    - #[[E: Sex, politics, and social status are not perfectly distinct. They overlap and share intermediate goals]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - Sometimes the prizes of one game become instruments in another. To succeed in the mating game, for example, it often pays to have high status and political clout—while an attractive mate can, in turn, raise one’s social status.
    - #[[E: Each game requires two complementary skill sets: the ability to evaluate potential partners and the ability to attract good partners]]. #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - In sex, the partners we’re looking for are mates. In social status, we’re looking for friends and associates. And in politics, we’re looking for allies, people to team up with.
    - #[[E: The temptation to deceive is ubiquitous. Deception allows an agent to reap benefits without incurring costs]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: We don’t always need to be conscious of the signals we’re sending and receiving.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - We may have evolved an instinct to make art, for example, as a means of advertising our artistic skills and free time (survival surplus)—but that’s not necessarily what we’re thinking about as we whittle a sculpture from a piece of driftwood. We may simply be thinking about the beauty of the sculpture (for more on art, see Chapter 11). Nevertheless, the deeper logic of many of our strangest and most unique behaviors may lie in their value as signals.
        - Leonard Mlodinow says in Subliminal, “Much, if not most, of the nonverbal signaling and reading of signals is automatic and performed outside our conscious awareness and control.”
    - #[[E: Through norms, we are occasionally able to turn wasteful competition into productive cooperation]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - We can sometimes see ahead and coordinate to avoid unnecessary competition.  
        - Most norms—especially of the bottom-up, grassroots variety—are beneficial; they’re one of the main ways we suppress competition and promote cooperation. In other words, we hold ourselves back, collectively, for our own good.
        - The threat of some kind of punishment must always be present, or a “norm” is little more than hot air.
        - The essence of a norm lies not in the words we use to describe it, but in which behaviors get punished and what form the punishment takes.
        - If you refrain from hitting people because you’re afraid they’ll hit you back, that’s not a norm. If you’re afraid of speaking out against a dangerous regime because you’re worried about retaliation from the regime itself, that’s not a norm. But if you’re worried that your neighbors might disapprove and even coordinate to punish you, then you’re most likely dealing with a norm. It’s this third-party, collective enforcement that’s unique to humans.
        - Perhaps the most comprehensive norm of all—a catch-all that includes bragging, currying favor, and political behavior, but extends to everything else that we’re supposed to do for prosocial reasons—is the norm against selfish motives. It’s also the linchpin of our thesis
        - Anything that hampers enforcement (or prosecution) will improve the odds of getting away with a crime. This is where discretion comes in. Such discretion can take many forms:
            - Pretexts. These function as ready-made excuses or alibis.
                - a pretext doesn’t need to fool everyone—it simply needs to be plausible enough to make people worry that other people might believe it.
            - Discreet communication. Keeping things on the down-low.  
            - Skirting a norm instead of violating it outright.  
            - Subtlety. In honor cultures, an open insult is considered ample provocation for violence. In contrast, an insult that’s subtle enough not to land “on the record” will often get a pass.  
            - All of these techniques work by the same mechanism, in that they prevent a norm violation from becoming full common knowledge, which makes it more difficult to prosecute
            - Consider how we use our bodies to “say” a lot of things we’d get in trouble for saying out loud. It would be appallingly crass to announce, “I’m the most important person in the room”—but we can convey the same message, discreetly, simply by splaying out on a couch or staring at people while talking to them. Similarly, “I’m attracted to you,” is too direct to state out loud to someone you just met—but a smile, a lingering glance, or a friendly touch on the wrist can accomplish the same thing, with just enough plausible deniability to avoid ruffling feathers
            - Laughter, shows us the boundaries that language is too shy to make explicit. In this way, humor can be extremely useful for exploring the boundaries of the social world. The sparks of laughter illuminate what is otherwise murky and hard to pin down with precision: the threshold between safety and danger, between what’s appropriate and what’s transgressive, between who does and doesn’t deserve our empathy. In fact, what laughter illustrates is precisely the fact that our norms and other social boundaries aren’t etched in stone with black-and-white precision, but ebb and shift through shades of gray, depending on context
        - If norms are supposed to discourage competition, then why do we still need big brains? A plausible answer is that our norms are only partially enforced, so we need big brains to figure out how to cheat. In fact, norm-evaders and norm-enforcers are locked in a competitive arms race of their own—a game of cat and mouse—pushing each other ever upward in mental ability.
    - #[[E: it was learning to use deadly weapons that was the inflection point in the trajectory of our species’ political behavior.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - Once our ancestors learned how to kill and punish each other collectively, nothing would be the same. Coalition size would balloon almost overnight. Politics would then become exponentially more complicated and require more intelligence to navigate, and brains would struggle to catch up for thousands of generations. And soon, norms would begin to proliferate, starting with the norm against being a too-dominant alpha, and continuing to this day as we invent new norms for every new context we develop
        - Once weapons enter the picture, physical strength is no longer the most crucial factor in determining a hominid’s success within a group. It’s still important, mind you, but not singularly important. In particular, political skill—being able to identify, join, and possibly lead the most effective coalition—takes over as the determining factor.
    - #[[E: Gossip—talking about people behind their backs, often focusing on their flaws or misdeeds—is a feature of every society ever studied.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - While it can often be mean-spirited and hurtful, gossip is also an important process for curtailing bad behavior, especially among powerful people
        - Gossip is important and useful even when it doesn’t lead to formal sanctions, because it can substantially damage the reputation of whomever is being gossiped about. It’s the threat of such reputational damage that provides an important check on bad behavior, especially in cases when direct punishment is too difficult or costly to enforce. Of course, the ability of gossip to damage someone’s reputation is also why gossip is so often used maliciously. But when it comes to norm enforcement, it’s important to see this as an abuse—a perversion—of an otherwise important sanctioning mechanism.
    - #[[E: Status is more than just an individual attribute or attitude—it’s fundamentally an act of coordination.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - When two people differ in status, both have to modify their behavior. Typically the higher-status person will take up more space, hold eye contact for longer periods of time (more on this in just a moment), speak with fewer pauses, interrupt more frequently, and generally set the pace and tenor of interaction. The lower-status person, meanwhile, will typically defer to the higher-status person in each of these areas, granting him or her more leeway, both physically and socially. In order to walk together, for example, the lower-status person must accommodate to match the gait of the higher-status person.
        - 
    - #[[E: Conversation is a way to display status.]]  #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - Conversation looks on the surface like an exercise in sharing information, but subtextually, it’s a way for speakers to show off their wit, perception, status, and intelligence, and (at the same time) for listeners to find speakers they want to team up with.
    - #[[E: We’re locked in a game of competitive signaling.]] #[[Evergreens]] #[[Psychology]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]]
        - While ecological selection (the pressure to survive) abhors waste, sexual selection often favors it. We prefer mates who can afford to waste time, energy, and other resources.  What’s valuable isn’t the waste itself, but what the waste says about the survival surplus—health, wealth, energy levels, and so forth—of a potential mate
        - Human art is more than just a courtship display, that is, an advertisement of the artist’s value as a potential mate. It also functions as a general-purpose fitness display, that is, an advertisement of the artist’s health, energy, vigor, coordination, and overall fitness. Fitness displays can be used to woo mates, of course, but they also serve other purposes like attracting allies or intimidating rivals
        - We find attractive those things that could have been produced only by people with attractive, high-fitness qualities such as health, energy, endurance, hand–eye coordination, fine motor control, intelligence, #[[Creativity]], access to rare materials, the ability to learn difficult skills, and lots of free time.
        - Discernment becomes important not only for differentiating high quality from low quality (and good artists from mediocre ones), but also as a fitness display unto itself
        - The fact that we often discuss our purchases also explains how we’re able to use services and experiences, in addition to material goods, to advertise our desirable qualities.
        - When signals are used in competitive games, like sex, status, and politics, an arms race often results. In order to outdo the other competitors, each participant tries to send the strongest possible signal.
        - {{embed: ((ObOXz5gWt))}}
            - No matter how fast the economy grows, there remains a limited supply of sex and social status—and earning and spending money is still a good way to compete for it.
    - #[[E: Schools have to break our forager spirits and train us to submit to our place in a modern hierarchy. ]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - While there are many social and economic benefits to this enterprise, one of the first casualties is learning. As Albert Einstein lamented, “It is . . . nothing short of a miracle that modern methods of instruction have not yet entirely strangled the holy curiosity of inquiry.”
    - #[[E: because there are two reasons to consume and provide medicine—health and conspicuous care—we end up overtreated]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
    - #[[E: Beliefs aren’t always in the driver’s seat. Instead, they’re often better modeled as symptoms of the underlying incentives, which are frequently social rather than psychological.]] #[[Evergreens]] [[The Elephant in the Brain]] #[[Psychology]]
        - This is the religious elephant in the brain: We don’t worship simply because we believe. Instead, we worship (and believe) because it helps us as social creatures.
        - religion isn’t a matter of private beliefs, but rather of shared beliefs and, more importantly, communal practices. These interlocking pieces work together, creating strong social incentives for individuals to act (selfishly) in ways that benefit the entire religious community. And the net result is a highly cohesive and cooperative social group. A religion, therefore, isn’t just a set of propositional beliefs about God and the afterlife; it’s an entire social system.27
        - religions can be understood, in part, as community-enforced mating strategies.
        - the value of holding certain beliefs comes not from acting on them, but from convincing others that you believe them. This is especially true of religious beliefs. They aren’t particularly useful or practical for individuals in isolation, and yet we experience large social rewards for adopting them and/or punishment for not adopting them
        - one of the best ways to convince others of one’s belief is to actually believe it.
