- Author:: [[Jundo Cohen]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Dogen
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: We sit with the trust that nothing is lacking in zazen]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - The first step is no step, sitting upright and very still. This is zazen, seated Zen, in which we assume a balanced and stable posture, breathe deeply and naturally, and just sit. In this sitting, we let go of tangled thoughts and judgments as best we can. We try not to wallow in our emotions or get caught up in long trains of thought, but instead let things be. We sit in equanimity, beyond judging good or bad, with a sense that this sitting is the one and only act that needs to be done in this moment, the one place to be in the whole universe. We sit in the present instant without engaging thoughts of past or future, and in doing so, we encounter the timeless wholeness of just this moment. As we sit unmoving, the whole moving world flows past and through us. When we sit with the trust that nothing is lacking in zazen, our sitting is complete because we stop all other measuring. We human beings are always chasing goals, feeling our lack, judging good and bad, and feeling friction between our wants and reality. But when we sit in shikantaza—in “just sitting that hits the mark”—we stop chasing goals for a time. Sitting is its own goal and completion. When we sit this way, the division between us and the world drops away and we feel the profound wholeness of the dance. That is the first lesson. Master Dōgen’s next lesson is the sacredness of all things and activities. Getting up from the sitting cushion, we return to a life of goals and tasks, work that needs tending, clothes that need mending. In his teachings, Master Dōgen said we should not separate life and practice, but instead see everything and all moments as sacred practice. Rising in the morning, using the toilet and washing, cleaning and cooking, are all steps in the dance. Every single thought, word, and gesture, no matter how seemingly ordinary and mundane, is sacred. This does not mean that all our actions are equally good. We need to live and act in skillful ways in order to taste the overarching goodness and sacredness of life. Thus, Master Dōgen’s next lesson tells us to always seek to do good and to avoid doing harm. By that he means that we should avoid greed, anger, jealousy, and other damaging mental states. We should live with balance, poise, and moderation. In our own thoughts, words, and acts, we should choose that which is free from such harmful behaviors. In turn, the lessons of zazen and Zen practice will help us to do this. Thus, dancing well leads us to practice as better dancers, while being better dancers allows us to dance well. 
    - #[[E: While sitting, our one plan and concern is to sit]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - While sitting, we put aside any other plans or concerns. Our one plan and concern is to sit. We let the world just be the world, our struggles just be our struggles, our fears just be our fears. We don’t try to change things or do anything at all but just sit. We sit with a subtle faith and trust that the sitting itself is all we need to do while sitting; it’s a complete act, the one place to be and the one thing necessary in that moment. During zazen, we drop all resistance or feeling of lack, letting the act of sitting be enough in itself. 
    - #[[E: The mere act of sitting zazen is whole and complete]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]] 
        - The sitting is the total fruition of life’s goals, with nothing lacking and nothing added to the bare fact of sitting here and now. No matter how busy our lives or how strongly we may feel tempted to be elsewhere, for the time of sitting we put aside all other concerns. To do this, we must have a sense that the single act of crossing the legs as Dōgen instructed (or sitting in some other balanced posture, as many modern students do) is the realization of all we’ve ever sought. That is why there is simply no other place to go in the world, nothing else to do besides sit in this posture. 
    - #[[E: When you find yourself tangled up in thoughts, return your attention to open, spacious awareness]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]] 
        - Alternatively to the breath as it enters and exits your body, or to your posture. Drop away your judgments of good and bad. Sit beyond judgments, without grabbing onto thoughts that flit through your mind. According to tradition, the mind in zazen is like a clear mirror and the open blue sky. A mirror reflects whatever is placed before it—beautiful or ugly, friend or foe, welcome or detested—and allows each thing to be exactly what it is without rejection, resistance, preference, or judgment. The blue sky represents the open, clear, boundless, illuminated mind. Clouds represent thoughts. When clouds do appear, we simply allow them to drift by without trying to hold on to them, because when we do get caught, we make the mind even cloudier. Thus, to the extent that we can, we sit in the clear, bright open sky between the clouds, our mind untroubled. In just sitting like this, something beautiful may result: the light, open clarity of the sky may shine through the occasional passing clouds, and we may realize that sky and clouds are not two. It is as if the light shines through the clouds and lightens them. If a problem drifts into my mind—like my cancer, for example—the light, open clarity of the sky shows me that it is not such a big problem after all, the heaviness of the problem lessens or vanishes, and silence and illumination fill everything. What seemed to be a dark, solid storm cloud suddenly appears as bright and permeable as lace. I believe this is what Dōgen meant when he spoke of “non-thinking” (hi-shiryō) or “thinking-not-thinking” (sometimes rendered as “beyond thinking”). The thought of the problem may remain, yet also not, both together. Of course, on some days our minds will be so busy that the clouds completely block the sky. In those cases, what do we do? First, we return to following the breath or focusing on the posture, until the clouds clear a bit. If that does not work, then we simply observe our strong emotions or anxious thoughts, treating them like passing weather clouds. We just let the storm blow through without getting swept away. We can feel equanimity even about not feeling equanimous. A moment of zazen is a moment of light shining, seen or unseen, but shining clearly in the heart. At the same time, “letting thoughts go” means not giving in to our worst feelings and letting them run unchecked. If we sit still, complacent, wallowing in our ignorance, anger, or jealousy, then we are not truly letting things be. Instead we are playing with and being pulled in by our thoughts. By not letting the powerful or negative emotions grab us, we rob them of much of their power and by not playing their game, we refuse to make things worse. We witness our inner storms like the parent of a child whose tantrum we cannot seem to still. Sometimes we just have to wait calmly for the child to tire and quiet down on her own, offering a loving smile and embrace while waiting patiently. If instead we get pulled into the situation, yelling and feeling miserable about the miserable state, we will throw more fuel on the fire, making it burn even hotter. Thus, “letting thoughts go” means letting things be, but it also refers to the cultivation of equanimity that does not slide into wallowing or stewing. 
    - #[[E: Nothing is to be achieved by sitting in Zazen]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - Sitting in zazen gives us the ability to be at rest with whatever life tosses our way, to realize the preciousness and wholeness of life in this moment. How tragic if we instead turn our zazen into one more battle for achievement; a race to get to some peaceful place, grab some craved prize, or receive a spiritual reward. How unfortunate if we use zazen as a break from life, as a form of escape, never tasting the wholeness and completeness of life that shikantaza offers. If we fall into such traps, zazen becomes just one more expression of the rat race with a prize that is ever out of reach. 
    - #[[E: Put aside all involvements, give all affairs a rest]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - Think of neither good nor bad, right nor wrong. Stop the whirling wheels of mind, will, and consciousness, cease the measures and judgments of your inner thoughts, ideas, and impressions. 
    - #[[E: The essential art of Zazen is non-thinking]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
    - #[[E: Zazen is not step-by-step mastering meditative concentration]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - It is simply the the peaceful and joyful gate of the Buddha’s truth, the practice and realization of the Buddha’s complete enlightenment. It is the kōan right here realized; nothing can catch or ensnare it. The truth appears, there being no delusion. If you understand this, you are like a dragon that has reached the waters or a tiger reposing on its mountain. The right order of things will then be apparent, and all darkness and confusion will drop away from the start. 
    - #[[E: There is no reason to leave your own sitting place and make aimless trips to dusty foreign lands]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - When your first step is mistaken, you will stumble right past the great way that is immediately before you. 
    - #[[E: When the myriad things are realized as each without an individual self, there is no delusion and no enlightenment]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]] 
        - no Buddhas and no sentient beings, no birth and no death. 
    - #[[E: It is delusion to impose yourself and your desires upon life, demanding that the myriad things of the world be as you wish]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
    - #[[E: When one sees or hears fully and wholly, one understands without separation]] #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - When one sees the forms or hears the sounds of the world fully and wholly with body and mind [free of judgment, free of mental categories, transcending “me, my, mine”], one intimately understands without separation. Then, it is not like some object and its reflection in a mirror, and it is unlike the moon and its reflection in distant water, whereby one side is illuminated and the other side is left in the dark. 
    - #[[E: To learn the self is to drop the separate self from mind]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - To drop the separate self from mind is to be actualized by the myriad things of the world. When actualized by the myriad things, one’s body and mind as well as the bodies and minds of others all drop away. In such intimacy, no trace even of “enlightenment” remains, and this no-trace continues endlessly. 
    - #[[E: When you intimately practice and turn within, it will become clear that nothing at all has a fixed, individual self]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
    - #[[E: Our enlightenment is like the moon reflected in the water. The moon does not get wet, the water is not broken]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - Although the light shines wide and vast, the moon is reflected in a puddle a foot or an inch wide. The entire moon and the whole sky are reflected in countless dewdrops upon the grass, and even in a single drop of water. 
        - Enlightenment does not divide a person, just as the moon does not shatter the water. We cannot obstruct enlightenment, just as a drop of water does not obstruct the moon in the sky. The depth of each drop is the measure of the height of the moon. No matter how long or short the duration of each reflection, it expresses the largeness or smallness of the dewdrop, yet completely holds the boundlessness of the moonlight in the heavens. 
    - #[[E: Take close care of the thoughts, ideas, and perceptions; explore thoroughly this mind, will, and consciousness]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
    - #[[E: We strive to understand how time is ever passing, but fail to understand it as that which never comes and never arrives]]. #Philosophy #Evergreens [[The Zen Master's Dance]]
        - Because flowing is a quality of time, moments of past and present do not pile up on top of one another or line up in a row. 
