- Author:: [[Morgan Housel]]
- Recommended By:: 
- Author:: [[Morgan Housel]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights 
    - #[[E: We think about and are taught about money in ways that are too much like physics (with rules and laws) and not enough like psychology (with emotions and nuance)]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Financial success is not a hard science. It’s a soft skill, where how you behave is more important than what you know. 
    - #[[E: Luck and risk are both the reality that every outcome in life is guided by forces other than individual effort.]]   #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - They are so similar that you can’t believe in one without equally respecting the other. They both happen because the world is too complex to allow 100% of your actions to dictate 100% of your outcomes. 
        - The accidental impact of actions outside of your control can be more consequential than the ones you consciously take. 
        - Not all success is due to hard work, and not all poverty is due to laziness. Keep this in mind when judging people, including yourself. 
        - A plan is only useful if it can survive reality. And a future filled with unknowns is everyone’s reality. 
        - Everyone-without exception-will eventually face a huge expense they did not expect-and they don’t plan for these expenses specifically because they did not expect them. 
        - Coming to terms with how much you don’t know means coming to terms with how much of what happens in the world is out of your control. And that can be hard to accept. 
        - Both in explaining the past and in predicting the future, we focus on the causal role of skill and neglect the role of luck. We focus on what we know and neglect what we do not know, which makes us overly confident in our beliefs. 
        - #Quotes Things that have never happened before happen all the time. [[Scott D. Sagan]]
        - #Quotes Risk is what’s left over when you think you’ve thought of everything. [[Carl Richards]]
        - #Quotes When planning we focus on what we want to do and can do, neglecting the plans and skills of others whose decisions might affect our outcomes. [[Daniel Kahneman]]
    - #[[E: There is no reason to risk what you have and need for what you don’t have and don’t need]]  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - “Enough” is realizing that the opposite—an insatiable appetite for more—will push you to the point of regret. The only way to know how much food you can eat is to eat until you’re sick. Few try this because vomiting hurts more than any meal is good. For some reason the same logic doesn’t translate to business and investing, and many will only stop reaching for more when they break and are forced to. 
        - Reputation is invaluable. Freedom and independence are invaluable. Family and friends are invaluable. Being loved by those who you want to love you is invaluable. Happiness is invaluable. And your best shot at keeping these things is knowing when it’s time to stop taking risks that might harm them. Knowing when you have enough. 
        - You should like risk because it pays off over time. But you should be paranoid of ruinous risk because it prevents you from taking future risks that will pay off over time.
    - #[[E: The ceiling of social comparison is so high that virtually no one will ever hit it]]  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Which means it’s a battle that can never be won, or that the only way to win is to not fight to begin with—to accept that you might have enough, even if it’s less than those around you. 
        - Wanting to surpass your peers can be the fuel of hard work. But life isn’t any fun without a sense of enough. Happiness, as it’s said, is just results minus expectations. 
        - It’s a subtle recognition that people generally aspire to be respected and admired by others, and using money to buy fancy things may bring less of it than you imagine. If respect and admiration are your goal, be careful how you seek it. Humility, kindness, and empathy will bring you more respect than horsepower ever will. 
        - The world is filled with people who look modest but are actually wealthy and people who look rich who live at the razor’s edge of insolvency. Keep this in mind when quickly judging others’ success and setting your own goals. 
        - Everyone needs the basics. Once they’re covered there’s another level of comfortable basics, and past that there’s basics that are both comfortable, entertaining, and enlightening. But spending beyond a pretty low level of materialism is mostly a reflection of ego approaching income, a way to spend money to show people that you have (or had) money. 
        - One of the most powerful ways to increase your savings isn’t to raise your income. It’s to raise your humility. When you define savings as the gap between your ego and your income you realize why many people with decent incomes save so little. It’s a daily struggle against instincts to extend your peacock feathers to their outermost limits and keep up with others doing the same. 
    - #[[E: Less ego, more wealth]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Saving money is the gap between your ego and your income, and wealth is what you don’t see. So wealth is created by suppressing what you could buy today in order to have more stuff or more options in the future. No matter how much you earn, you will never build wealth unless you can put a lid on how much fun you can have with your money right now, today.
        - Be nicer and less flashy. No one is impressed with your possessions as much as you are. You might think you want a fancy car or a nice watch. But what you probably want is respect and admiration. And you’re more likely to gain those things through kindness and humility than horsepower and chrome.
    - #[[E: Good investing isn’t necessarily about earning the highest returns, because the highest returns tend to be one-off hits that can’t be repeated.]]  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - It’s about earning pretty good returns that you can stick with and which can be repeated for the longest period of time. 
    - #[[E: There are a million ways to get wealthy, and plenty of books on how to do so. But there’s only one way to stay wealthy: some combination of frugality and paranoia]]  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - If I had to summarize money success in a single word it would be “survival.” 
        - Getting money requires taking risks, being optimistic, and putting yourself out there. But keeping money requires the opposite of taking risk. It requires humility, and fear that what you’ve made can be taken away from you just as fast. It requires frugality and an acceptance that at least some of what you’ve made is attributable to luck, so past success can’t be relied upon to repeat indefinitely. 
        - You have to take risk to get ahead, but no risk that can wipe you out is ever worth taking. 
    - #[[E: Compounding only works if you can give an asset years and years to grow]].  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - It’s like planting oak trees: A year of growth will never show much progress, 10 years can make a meaningful difference, and 50 years can create something absolutely extraordinary. But getting and keeping that extraordinary growth requires surviving all the unpredictable ups and downs that everyone inevitably experiences over time. 
        - Compounding works best when you can give a plan years or decades to grow. This is true for not only savings but careers and relationships. Endurance is key. And when you consider our tendency to change who we are over time, balance at every point in your life becomes a strategy to avoid future regret and encourage endurance. Aiming, at every point in your working life, to have moderate annual savings, moderate free time, no more than a moderate commute, and at least moderate time with your family, increases the odds of being able to stick with a plan and avoid regret than if any one of those things fall to the extreme sides of the spectrum. 
    - #[[E: If you want to do better as an investor, the single most powerful thing you can do is increase your time horizon]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Time is the most powerful force in investing. It makes little things grow big and big mistakes fade away. It can’t neutralize luck and risk, but it pushes results closer towards what people deserve.
    - #[[E: Room for error—often called margin of safety—is one of the most underappreciated forces in finance]].  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - It comes in many forms: A frugal budget, flexible thinking, and a loose timeline—anything that lets you live happily with a range of outcomes. 
        - Incentives are a powerful motivator, and we should always remember how they influence our own financial goals and outlooks. It can’t be overstated: there is no greater force in finance than room for error, and the higher the stakes, the wider it should be. 
    - #[[E: Sensible optimism is a belief that the odds are in your favor, and over time things will balance out to a good outcome even if what happens in between is filled with misery]].  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - In fact you know it will be filled with misery. You can be optimistic that the long-term growth trajectory is up and to the right, but equally sure that the road between now and then is filled with landmines, and always will be. 
        - You need short-term paranoia to keep you alive long enough to exploit long-term optimism. 
        - It is not intuitive that an investor can be wrong half the time and still make a fortune. It means we underestimate how normal it is for a lot of things to fail. Which causes us to overreact when they do. 
        - Investment returns can make you rich. But whether an investing strategy will work, and how long it will work for, and whether markets will cooperate, is always in doubt. Results are shrouded in uncertainty. Personal savings and frugality-finance’s conservation and efficiency-are parts of the money equation that are more in your control and have a 100% chance of being as effective in the future as they are today. 
        - Only saving for a specific goal makes sense in a predictable world. But ours isn’t. Saving is a hedge against life’s inevitable ability to surprise the hell out of you at the worst possible moment. 
        - There are few financial variables more correlated to performance than commitment to a strategy during its lean years-both the amount of performance and the odds of capturing it over a given period of time. 
        - A good investing strategy doesn’t rely on picking the right sector, or timing the next recession. It relies on a high savings rate, patience, and optimism that the global economy will create value over the next several decades. I spend virtually all of my investing effort thinking about those three things-especially the first two, which I can control. 
    - #[[E: Anything that is huge, profitable, famous, or influential is the result of a tail event-an outlying one-in-thousands or millions event]].  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Most of our attention goes to things that are huge, profitable, famous, or influential. When most of what we pay attention to is the result of a tail, it’s easy to underestimate how rare and powerful they are. 
        - Most public companies are duds, a few do well, and a handful become extraordinary winners that account for the majority of the stock market’s returns. 
        - When you accept that tails drive everything in business, investing, and finance you realize that it’s normal for lots of things to go wrong, break, fail, and fall. 
        - Worship room for error. A gap between what could happen in the future and what you need to happen in the future in order to do well is what gives you endurance, and endurance is what makes compounding magic over time. Room for error often looks like a conservative hedge, but if it keeps you in the game it can pay for itself many times over.
        - There is little correlation between investment effort and investment results. The reason is because the world is driven by tails-a few variables account for the majority of returns. No matter how hard you try at investing you won’t do well if you miss the two or three things that move the needle in your strategy. The reverse is true. Simple investment strategies can work great as long as they capture the few things that are important to that strategy’s success. 
    - #[[E: A small minority of things account for the majority of outcomes]]  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Become OK with a lot of things going wrong. You can be wrong half the time and still make a fortune, because a small minority of things account for the majority of outcomes. No matter what you’re doing with your money you should be comfortable with a lot of stuff not working. That’s just how the world is. So you should always measure how you’ve done by looking at your full portfolio, rather than individual investments. It is fine to have a large chunk of poor investments and a few outstanding ones. That’s usually the best-case scenario. Judging how you’ve done by focusing on individual investments makes winners look more brilliant than they were, and losers appear more regrettable than they should.
    - #[[E: A good definition of an investing genius is the man or woman who can do the average thing when all those around them are going crazy]].  #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - #Quotes It’s not whether you’re right or wrong that’s important, but how much money you make when you’re right and how much you lose when you’re wrong. [[George Soros]] 
        - You can be wrong half the time and still make a fortune. 
    - #[[E: The the highest dividend money pays is the ability to do what you want, when you want, with who you want]] #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens
        - #Quotes Having a strong sense of controlling one’s life is a more dependable predictor of positive feelings of wellbeing than any of the objective conditions of life we have considered. [[Angus Campbell]]
        - Money’s greatest intrinsic value—and this can’t be overstated—is its ability to give you control over your time. To obtain, bit by bit, a level of independence and autonomy that comes from unspent assets that give you greater control over what you can do and when you can do it. 
        - Controlling your time is the highest dividend money pays. 
        - Wealth is the nice cars not purchased. The diamonds not bought. The watches not worn, the clothes forgone and the first-class upgrade declined. Wealth is financial assets that haven’t yet been converted into the stuff you see. 
    - #[[E: Not having control of your time is a powerful and universal drag on happiness]] #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Use money to gain control over your time, because not having control of your time is such a powerful and universal drag on happiness. The ability to do what you want, when you want, with who you want, for as long as you want to, pays the highest dividend that exists in finance.
    - #[[E: Wealth is an option not yet taken to buy something later]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Its value lies in offering you options, flexibility, and growth to one day purchase more stuff than you could right now. But wealth is hidden. It’s income not spent. 
        - The danger here is that most people, deep down, want to be wealthy. They want freedom and flexibility, which is what financial assets not yet spent can give you. But it is so ingrained in us that to have money is to spend money that we don’t get to see the restraint it takes to actually be wealthy. And since we can’t see it, it’s hard to learn about it. 
        - Building wealth has little to do with your income or investment returns, and lots to do with your savings rate. 
        - Wealth is just the accumulated leftovers after you spend what you take in. And since you can build wealth without a high income, but have no chance of building wealth without a high savings rate, it’s clear which one matters more. 
        - A high savings rate means having lower expenses than you otherwise could, and having lower expenses means your savings go farther than they would if you spent more. 
        - Every bit of savings is like taking a point in the future that would have been owned by someone else and giving it back to yourself. 
        - Independence, at any income level, is driven by your savings rate. And past a certain level of income your savings rate is driven by your ability to keep your lifestyle expectations from running away. 
        - Save. Just save. You don’t need a specific reason to save. It’s great to save for a car, or a downpayment, or a medical emergency. But saving for things that are impossible to predict or define is one of the best reasons to save. Everyone’s life is a continuous chain of surprises. Savings that aren’t earmarked for anything in particular is a hedge against life’s inevitable ability to surprise the hell out of you at the worst possible moment.
    - #[[E: A hyper-connected world means the talent pool you compete in has gone from hundreds or thousands spanning your town to millions or billions spanning the globe]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - This is especially true for jobs that rely on working with your head versus your muscles: teaching, marketing, analysis, consulting, accounting, programming, journalism, and even medicine increasingly compete in global talent pools. More fields will fall into this category as digitization erases global boundaries—as “software eats the world,” as venture capitalist Marc Andreesen puts it. 
        - In a world where intelligence is hyper-competitive and many previous technical skills have become automated, competitive advantages tilt toward nuanced and soft skills—like communication, empathy, and, perhaps most of all, flexibility. 
    - #[[E: Do not aim to be coldly rational when making financial decisions. Aim to just be pretty reasonable]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Reasonable is more realistic and you have a better chance of sticking with it for the long run, which is what matters most when managing money. 
        - Academic finance is devoted to finding the mathematically optimal investment strategies. My own theory is that, in the real world, people do not want the mathematically optimal strategy. They want the strategy that maximizes for how well they sleep at night. 
    - #[[E: History helps us calibrate our expectations, study where people tend to go wrong, and offers a rough guide of what tends to work. But it is not, in any way, a map of the future]] #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - The majority of what’s happening at any given moment in the global economy can be tied back to a handful of past events that were nearly impossible to predict. 
        - #Quotes
            - Whenever we are surprised by something, even if we admit that we made a mistake, we say, ‘Oh I’ll never make that mistake again.’ But, in fact, what you should learn when you make a mistake because you did not anticipate something is that the world is difficult to anticipate. That’s the correct lesson to learn from surprises: that the world is surprising. [[Daniel Kahneman]]
        - The correct lesson to learn from surprises is that the world is surprising. Not that we should use past surprises as a guide to future boundaries; that we should use past surprises as an admission that we have no idea what might happen next. 
        - History is littered with good ideas taken too far, which are indistinguishable from bad ideas. The wisdom in having room for error is acknowledging that uncertainty, randomness, and chance—“unknowns”—are an ever-present part of life. The only way to deal with them is by increasing the gap between what you think will happen and what can happen while still leaving you capable of fighting another day. 
        - History cannot be interpreted without the aid of imagination and intuition. The sheer quantity of evidence is so overwhelming that selection is inevitable. Where there is selection there is art. Those who read history tend to look for what proves them right and confirms their personal opinions. They defend loyalties. They read with a purpose to affirm or to attack. They resist inconvenient truth since everyone wants to be on the side of the angels. Just as we start wars to end all wars. 
        - #Quotes Hindsight, the ability to explain the past, gives us the illusion that the world is understandable. It gives us the illusion that the world makes sense, even when it doesn’t make sense. That’s a big deal in producing mistakes in many fields. [[Daniel Kahneman]]
    - #[[E: Imagining a goal is easy and fun. Imagining a goal in the context of the realistic life stresses that grow with competitive pursuits is something entirely different]] #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - We should accept the reality of changing our minds. Some of the most miserable workers I’ve met are people who stay loyal to a career only because it’s the field they picked when deciding on a college major at age 18. When you accept the End of History Illusion, you realize that the odds of picking a job when you’re not old enough to drink that you will still enjoy when you’re old enough to qualify for Social Security are low. 
        - Sunk costs—anchoring decisions to past efforts that can’t be refunded—are a devil in a world where people change over time. They make our future selves prisoners to our past, different, selves. It’s the equivalent of a stranger making major life decisions for you. Embracing the idea that financial goals made when you were a different person should be abandoned without mercy versus put on life support and dragged on can be a good strategy to minimize future regret. 
    - #[[E: Avoid the extreme ends of financial decisions.]] #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Everyone’s goals and desires will change over time, and the more extreme your past decisions were the more you may regret them as you evolve.
        - [[The End of History Illusion]] is what psychologists call the tendency for people to be keenly aware of how much they’ve changed in the past, but to underestimate how much their personalities, desires, and goals are likely to change in the future. 
        - We should avoid the extreme ends of financial planning. Assuming you’ll be happy with a very low income, or choosing to work endless hours in pursuit of a high one, increases the odds that you’ll one day find yourself at a point of regret. The fuel of the [[The End of History Illusion]] is that people adapt to most circumstances, so the benefits of an extreme plan-the simplicity of having hardly anything, or the thrill of having almost everything-wear off. But the downsides of those extremes-not being able to afford retirement, or looking back at a life spent devoted to chasing dollars-become enduring regrets. Regrets are especially painful when you abandon a previous plan and feel like you have to run in the other direction twice as fast to make up for lost time. 
    - #[[E: Most things are harder in practice than they are in theory.]] [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Sometimes this is because we’re overconfident. More often it’s because we’re not good at identifying what the price of success is, which prevents us from being able to pay it. 
    - #[[E: Like everything else worthwhile, successful investing demands a price]]. [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - But its currency is not dollars and cents. It’s volatility, fear, doubt, uncertainty, and regret—all of which are easy to overlook until you’re dealing with them in real time. 
        - The only way to properly deal with volatility and uncertainty—not just putting up with it, but realizing that it’s an admission fee worth paying. 
        - Define the cost of success and be ready to pay it. Because nothing worthwhile is free. And remember that most financial costs don’t have visible price tags. Uncertainty, doubt, and regret are common costs in the finance world. They’re often worth paying. But you have to view them as fees (a price worth paying to get something nice in exchange) rather than fines (a penalty you should avoid).
    - #[[E: Investors have different goals and time horizons]] [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Prices that look ridiculous to one person can make sense to another, because the factors those investors pay attention to are different. 
        - Bubbles form when the momentum of short-term returns attracts enough money that the makeup of investors shifts from mostly long term to mostly short term. That process feeds on itself. As traders push up short-term returns, they attract even more traders. Before long—and it often doesn’t take long—the dominant market price-setters with the most authority are those with shorter time horizons. Bubbles aren’t so much about valuations rising. That’s just a symptom of something else: time horizons shrinking as more short-term traders enter the playing field. 
        - The formation of bubbles isn’t so much about people irrationally participating in long-term investing. They’re about people somewhat rationally moving toward short-term trading to capture momentum that had been feeding on itself. 
        - Bubbles do their damage when long-term investors playing one game start taking their cues from those short-term traders playing another. 
        - Rising prices persuade all investors in ways the best marketers envy. They are a drug that can turn value-conscious investors into dewy-eyed optimists, detached from their own reality by the actions of someone playing a different game than they are. 
        - Being swayed by people playing a different game can also throw off how you think you’re supposed to spend your money. So much consumer spending, particularly in developed countries, is socially driven: subtly influenced by people you admire, and done because you subtly want people to admire you. 
        - Few things matter more with money than understanding your own time horizon and not being persuaded by the actions and behaviors of people playing different games than you are. 
        - Define the game you’re playing, and make sure your actions are not being influenced by people playing a different game.
        - Respect the mess. Smart, informed, and reasonable people can disagree in finance, because people have vastly different goals and desires. There is no single right answer; just the answer that works for you.
    - #[[E: A constant drumbeat of pessimism usually drowns out any triumphalist song]]  [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - If you say the world has been getting better you may get away with being called naïve and insensitive. If you say the world is going to go on getting better, you are considered embarrassingly mad. If, on the other hand, you say catastrophe is imminent, you may expect a McArthur genius award or even the Nobel Peace Prize. In my own adult lifetime ... the fashionable reasons for pessimism changed, but the pessimism was constant. 
        - #Quotes When directly compared or weighted against each other, losses loom larger than gains. This asymmetry between the power of positive and negative expectations or experiences has an evolutionary history. Organisms that treat threats as more urgent than opportunities have a better chance to survive and reproduce. [[Daniel Kahneman]] 
    - #[[E: There is an iron law in economics: extremely good and extremely bad circumstances rarely stay that way for long]] [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - The reason for this is that supply and demand adapt in hard-to-predict ways. 
        - Assuming that something ugly will stay ugly is an easy forecast to make. And it’s persuasive, because it doesn’t require imagining the world changing. But problems correct and people adapt. Threats incentivize solutions in equal magnitude. That’s a common plot of economic history that is too easily forgotten by pessimists who forecast in straight lines. 
    - #[[E: Progress happens too slowly to notice, but setbacks happen too quickly to ignore.]] [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Growth is driven by compounding, which always takes time. Destruction is driven by single points of failure, which can happen in seconds, and loss of confidence, which can happen in an instant. 
    - #[[E: Stories are, by far, the most powerful force in the economy]]. [[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Stories are the fuel that can let the tangible parts of the economy work, or the brake that holds our capabilities back. 
        - Everyone has an incomplete view of the world. But we form a complete narrative to fill in the gaps. 
        - Most people, when confronted with something they don’t understand, do not realize they don’t understand it because they’re able to come up with an explanation that makes sense based on their own unique perspective and experiences in the world, however limited those experiences are. We all want the complicated world we live in to make sense. So we tell ourselves stories to fill in the gaps of what are effectively blind spots. 
        - The bigger the gap between what you want to be true and what you need to be true to have an acceptable outcome, the more you are protecting yourself from falling victim to an appealing financial fiction. 
        - Wanting to believe we are in control is an emotional itch that needs to be scratched, rather than an analytical problem to be calculated and solved. The illusion of control is more persuasive than the reality of uncertainty. So we cling to stories about outcomes being in our control. 
        - #Quotes We need to believe we live in a predictable, controllable world, so we turn to authoritative-sounding people who promise to satisfy that need. [[Philip Tetlock]]
    - #[[E: Go out of your way to find humility when things are going right and forgiveness/compassion when they go wrong]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
        - Because it’s never as good or as bad as it looks. The world is big and complex. Luck and risk are both real and hard to identify. Do so when judging both yourself and others. Respect the power of luck and risk and you’ll have a better chance of focusing on things you can actually control. You’ll also have a better chance of finding the right role models.
        - #[[E: Manage your money in a way that helps you sleep at night]]. #[[Personal Finance]] [[The Psychology of Money: Timeless Lessons on Wealth, Greed, and Happiness]] #Evergreens 
            - That’s different from saying you should aim to earn the highest returns or save a specific percentage of your income. Some people won’t sleep well unless they’re earning the highest returns; others will only get a good rest if they’re conservatively invested. To each their own. But the foundation of, “does this help me sleep at night?” is the best universal guidepost for all financial decisions.
