- Author:: [[nesslabs.com]]
- URL:: https://nesslabs.com/pari
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Articles #Inbox #Readwise
- ### Highlights first synced by #Readwise [[September 11th, 2020]]
    - Pact. This is where it all starts. You make a commitment to dedicate a certain amount of time or a certain number of repetitions towards your goal. It is not about the outcome, but about the output. #100daysofcode is a great example of a simple pact you can make in order to learn how to code. “I will learn how to code” is not a good pact. “I will code every day for a hundred days” is a great one. “I will write a book” is bad, “I will write 500 words a day” is good. “I will run a marathon” is bad, “I will run three times a week” is good. You get the gist: simple and repeatable activities that will bring you closer to achieving your goal and will progressively help you develop your growth mindset. Ideally, you should announce your pact, either to friends, colleagues, or online. This will help you feel more accountable.
Act. Time to actually do what you committed to do. One of the best ways to achieve this is to block time in your calendar. For example, I made a pact to write one new article every week day on this blog (please note I realise it would be a pretty ambitious pact for people who are just getting started with blogging, and your pact needs to feel reasonable). So I blocked an hour every day, first thing in the morning, to sit down and write. Blocking time in your calendar will both help you act on your decision to achieve your goal, and also build a habit so it becomes progressively easier to stick to it.
React. Remember metacognition and self-authorship? Instead of just blindly repeating the same activity every day, it’s important to make time for self-reflection in order to consolidate what you learn and to adapt in case your approach is not working. There are several ways to go about it. You could tweet about your progress and the challenges you face, write blog posts, share your experience with your team on your Slack channel, record short YouTube videos. The medium doesn’t really matter. What matters is that you produce content that will serve both as a repository for your thought process and a way to reflect on your experience. Did you feel productive? Was anything in particular hard to learn? How’s your mood? What did you wish you knew before getting started? Of course it can be daunting to publicly share your thoughts, progress and challenges with the world, but this will ensure you’re not only being productive, but also mindful of your productivity.
Impact. Once you feel closer to your goal, it’s time to work on something bigger that gets you out of your comfort zone. While this should not be your focus in the first phases, the “impact” phase can be your North Star while you’re focused on the “act” and “pact” phases. Have you been running three times a week? Time to sign up for a 10K. Have you been coding every day? Try to build your first application. This step will push you to do something you don’t quite yet feel comfortable to do. And that is exactly the point. If you have dedicated enough time to the first phases, you do have the means to achieve something bigger, and the repeated practice and self-reflection should give you the confidence to aim for a more challenging project. 
    - At the heart of mindframing are three mind frames that need to be mastered in order to achieve your goals without sacrificing your mental health. Combined together, they can allow anyone to grow as a person in a sustainable and mindful way.


Growth mindset. A growth mindset is the deep belief that growing happens through small, incremental steps, rather than big overnight victories, and that anyone can achieve anything with enough work and dedication.
Metacognition. A fancy way to say “thinking about thinking.” Metacognition is a conscious effort to stay aware of how you work, understand information, and the active process of picking the most effective strategies to achieve your goals.
Self-authorship. The ability to define and express your own personal authority. Instead of relying on external formulas to define your beliefs and values, self-authorship means you’re able to rely on your own internal voice to make decisions on a daily basis.
“In a fixed mindset, people believe their basic qualities, like their intelligence or talent, are simply fixed traits. They spend their time documenting their intelligence or talent instead of developing them. They also believe that talent alone creates success—without effort. In a growth mindset, people believe that their most basic abilities can be developed through dedication and hard work—brains and talent are just the starting point. This view creates a love of learning and a resilience that is essential for great accomplishment.”

Carol Dweck, Researcher at Stanford University. 
