- Author:: [[Natalie Goldberg]]
- Recommended By:: 
- Author:: [[Natalie Goldberg]]
- Recommended By::
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights
    - #[[E: The basic unit of writing practice is the timed exercise]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - You may time yourself for ten minutes, twenty minutes, or an hour. It’s up to you. At the beginning you may want to start small and after a week increase your time, or you may want to dive in for an hour the first time. It doesn’t matter. What does matter is that whatever amount of time you choose for that session, you must commit yourself to it and for that full period: 
            - Keep your hand moving. (Don’t pause to reread the line you have just written. That’s stalling and trying to get control of what you’re saying.) 
            - Don’t cross out. (That is editing as you write. Even if you write something you didn’t mean to write, leave it.) 
            - Don’t worry about spelling, punctuation, grammar. (Don’t even care about staying within the margins and lines on the page.) 
            - Lose control. 
            - Don’t think. Don’t get logical. 
            - Go for the jugular. (If something comes up in your writing that is scary or naked, dive right into it. It probably has lots of energy.) 
        - These are the rules. It is important to adhere to them because the aim is to burn through to first thoughts, to the place where energy is unobstructed by social politeness or the internal censor, to the place where you are writing what your mind actually sees and feels, not what it thinks it should see or feel. It’s a great opportunity to capture the oddities of your mind. Explore the rugged edge of thought. Like grating a carrot, give the paper the colorful coleslaw of your consciousness. 
    - #[[E: Writing is like any other activity, the more you do it, the better you get at it]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
    - #[[E: Sit down with the least expectation of yourself]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - When you write, don’t say, “I’m going to write a poem.” That attitude will freeze you right away. Say, “I am free to write the worst junk in the world.” You have to give yourself the space to write a lot without a destination. 
    - #[[E: One of the main aims in writing practice is to learn to trust your own mind and body; to grow patient and nonaggressive]].  #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
    - #[[E: One poem or story doesn’t matter one way or the other. It’s the process of writing and life that matters]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
    - #[[E: We must continue to open and trust in our own voice and process. Ultimately, if the process is good, the end will be good]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - You will get good writing. 
    - #[[E: Writing practice is a warm-up for anything else you might want to write. a memoir. It is something you must come back to again and again]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - It is the bottom line, the most primitive, essential beginning of writing. The trust you learn in your own voice can be directed then into a business letter, a novel, a Ph.D. dissertation, a play, a memoir. But it is something you must come back to again and again. 
        - Writing practice embraces your whole life and doesn’t demand any logical form: no chapter 19 following the action in chapter 18. It’s a place that you can come to wild and unbridled, mixing the dream of your grandmother’s soup with the astounding clouds outside your window. It is undirected and has to do with all of you right in your present moment. Think of writing practice as loving arms you come to illogically and incoherently. It’s our wild forest where we gather energy before going to prune our garden, write our fine books and novels. It’s a continual practice. 
    - #[[E: We aren’t running everything, not even the writing we do. At the same time, we must keep practicing]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - It is not an excuse to not write and sit on the couch eating bonbons. We must continue to work the compost pile, enriching it and making it fertile so that something beautiful may bloom and so that our writing muscles are in good shape to ride the universe when it moves through us. 
    - #[[E: It is a good idea to have a page in your notebook where you jot down, as they come to you, ideas of topics to write about]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Sometimes we sit down to write and can’t think of anything to write about. The blank page can be intimidating, and it does get boring to write over and over again for ten minutes of practice, “I can’t think of what to say. I can’t think of what to say.”. 
        - Making a list is good. It makes you start noticing material for writing in your daily life, and your writing comes out of a relationship with your life and its texture. In this way, the composting process is beginning. Your body is starting to digest and turn over your material, so even when you are not actually at the desk physically writing, there are parts of you raking, fertilizing, taking in the sun’s heat, and making ready for the deep green plants of writing to grow. 
    - #[[E: It is important to have a way worked out to begin your writing]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Otherwise, washing the dishes becomes the most important thing on earth—anything that will divert you from writing. Finally, one just has to shut up, sit down, and write. That is painful. Writing is so simple, basic, and austere. There are no fancy gadgets to make it more attractive. 
    - #[[E: We learn writing by doing it]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - People often begin writing from a poverty mentality. They are empty and they run to teachers and classes to learn about writing. We learn writing by doing it. That simple. We don’t learn by going outside ourselves to authorities we think know about it. 
    - #[[E: We should write voraciously, letting our minds eat up everything and spewing it out on paper with great energy]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - This is how we should write. Not asking “Why?,” not delicately picking among candies (or spark plugs), but voraciously, letting our minds eat up everything and spewing it out on paper with great energy. We shouldn’t think, “This is a good subject for writing.” “This we shouldn’t talk about.” Writing is everything, unconditional. There is no separation between writing, life, and the mind. 
    - #[[E: Don’t “make” your mind do anything. Simply step out of the way and record your thoughts as they roll through you]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Writing practice softens the heart and mind, helps to keep us flexible so that rigid distinctions between apples and milk, tigers and celery, disappear. We can step through moons right into bears. You will take leaps naturally if you follow your thoughts, because the mind spontaneously takes great leaps. You know. Have you ever been able to just stay with one thought for very long? Another one arises. 
    - #[[E: You can sit down and have something you want to say. But then you must let its expression be born in you and on the paper]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Don’t hold too tight; allow it to come out how it needs to rather than trying to control it. Yes, those experiences, memories, feelings, are in us, but you can’t carry them out on paper whole the way a cook brings out a pizza from the oven. 
    - #[[E: Let go of everything when you write, and try at a simple beginning with simple words to express what you have inside]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - It won’t begin smoothly. Allow yourself to be awkward. You are stripping yourself. You are exposing your life, not how your ego would like to see you represented, but how you are as a human being. And it is because of this that I think writing is religious. It splits you open and softens your heart toward the homely world. 
    - #[[E: Life is so rich, if you can write down the real details of the way things were and are, you hardly need anything else]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - **Tags**: #[[pink]]
    - #[[E: The most important thing is living life again in your writing, more than making money]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Now, let’s understand—writers do like money; artists, contrary to popular belief, do like to eat. It’s only that money isn’t the driving force. I feel very rich when I have time to write and very poor when I get a regular paycheck and no time to work at my real work. Think of it. Employers pay salaries for time. That is the basic commodity that human beings have that is valuable. We exchange our time in life for money. Writers stay with the first step—their time—and feel it is valuable even before they get money for it. They hold on to it and aren’t so eager to sell it. It’s like inheriting land from your family. It’s always been in your family: they have always owned it. Someone comes along and wants to buy it. Writers, if they are smart, won’t sell too much of it. They know once it’s sold, they might be able to buy a second car, but there will be no place they can go to sit still, no place to dream on. 
    - #[[E: To be a good writer, read a lot, listen well and deeply, and write a lot]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        -  And don’t think too much. Just enter the heat of words and sounds and colored sensations and keep your pen moving across the page. 
    - #[[E: When you write, stay in direct connection with the senses and what you are writing about]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - If you are writing from first thoughts—the way your mind first flashes on something before second and third thoughts take over and comment, criticize, and evaluate—you don’t have to worry. First thoughts are the mind reflecting experiences—as close as a human being can get in words to the sunset, the birth, the bobby pin, the crocus. We can’t always stay with first thoughts, but it is good to know about them. They can easily teach us how to step out of the way and use words like a mirror to reflect the pictures. 
    - #[[E: Push yourself beyond when you think you are done with what you have to say]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Go a little further. Sometimes when you think you are done, it is just the edge of beginning. Probably that’s why we decide we’re done. It’s getting too scary. We are touching down onto something real. It is beyond the point when you think you are done that often something strong comes out. 
    - #[[E: Begin with an empty page and a heart unsure, a famine of thoughts, a fear of no feeling -just begin from there]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - This kind of writing is uncontrolled, is not sure where the outcome is, and it begins in ignorance and darkness. But facing those things, writing from that place, will eventually break us and open us to the world as it is. Out of this tornado of fear will come a genuine writing voice. 
    - #[[E: Doubt is torture. If we give ourselves fully to something, it will be clearer when it might be appropriate to quit]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - It is a constant test of perseverance. 
        - Don’t listen to doubt. It leads no place but to pain and negativity. It is the same with your critic who picks at you while you are trying to write: “That’s stupid. Don’t say that. Who do you think you are anyway, trying to be a writer?” Don’t pay attention to those voices. There is nothing helpful there. Instead, have a tenderness and determination toward your writing, a sense of humor and a deep patience that you are doing the right thing. Avoid getting caught by that small gnawing mouse of doubt. See beyond it to the vastness of life and the belief in time and practice. 
    - #[[E: The writing process is a constant source of life and vitality]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
    - #[[E: Don’t even worry about writing “well”; just writing is heaven]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - The deepest secret in our heart of hearts is that we are writing because we love the world, and why not finally carry that secret out with our bodies into the living rooms and porches, backyards and grocery stores? Let the whole thing flower: the poem and the person writing the poem. And let us always be kind in this world. 
    - #[[E: Do not be tossed away by your achievements or your fiascoes. Continue under all circumstances. It will keep you healthy and alive]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Let go of all your failures and sit down and write something great. Or write something terrible and feel great about it. 
    - #[[E: When you want to write in a certain form—a novel, short story, poem—read a lot of writing in that form]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Watch how that form is paced. What is the first sentence? What makes it finished? When you read a lot in that form, it becomes imprinted inside you, so when you sit down to write, you write in that structure. For instance, if you are a poet and want to write a novel, you have to learn to write full sentences and not leap from one image to another. In reading novels your body digests full sentences, the steady hand of setting scenes, knowing the color of the tablecloth and how the writer gets her character to move across the room to the coffeepot. If you want to write short poems, you must digest that form and then exercise in that form. Try this: write a series of ten short poems. You only have three minutes to write each one; each one must be three lines. Begin each one with a title that you choose from something your eye falls on: for example, glass, salt, water, light reflecting, the window. Three lines, three minutes, the first title is “Glass.” Without thinking, write three deft lines. Pause a moment. Do another. Three minutes, three lines, the title is “Salt.” Continue in this way until that short thinking is a structure inside you and you can call it forth when that’s the form you need. Especially in a short poem, all words are used economically and the title should add another dimension to the poem rather than repeat a word already used in the body of the short poem. 
    - #[[E: Don’t just put in your time. That is not enough. You have to make great effort]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - In order to improve your writing, you have to practice just like any other sport. But don’t be dutiful and make it into a blind routine. “Yes, I have written an hour today and I wrote an hour yesterday and an hour the day before.” Don’t just put in your time. That is not enough. You have to make great effort. Be willing to put your whole life on the line when you sit down for writing practice. Otherwise you are just mechanically pushing the pen across the page and intermittently looking at the clock to see if your time is up. 
        - Some people hear the rule “Write every day” and do it and don’t improve. They are just being dutiful. That is the way of the Goody Two-shoes. It is a waste of energy because it takes tremendous effort to just follow the rules if your heart isn’t into it. If you find that this is your basic attitude, then stop writing. Stay away from it for a week or a year. Wait until you are hungry to say something, until there is an aching in you to speak. Then come back. 
        - Writing asks you to be engaged. Yes, after an hour of keeping your hand moving, you will have several pages filled with words; but ultimately, you can’t fool yourself. You must enter the gray and blue and your feelings, hopes, dreams. Somewhere along you have to break through. If not in this writing session, then in the next. If you are bored for years of writing, it means you are not connecting with yourself and the process. If you have a wish hidden below your Goody Twoshoes nature to be a writer but you make effort only as far as putting in your time, it just isn’t enough. 
        - Go into your writing with your whole heart. Don’t set up a system—“I have to write every day”—and then numbly do it. 
    - #[[E: If you have been pushing hard for a while—a few weeks, a month, a whole weekend nonstop—rest completely for a while]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Do something totally different and stop thinking about writing. Go paint the living room that looks dark and ugly; paint it white. Try baking some of the desserts that you cut out the recipes for in your local newspaper. Put full energy into something else. Do your taxes or play with your kids totally for two weeks. You will learn about your own rhythm—when you need to write and when you need to rest. This will give you a deeper relationship with yourself. You won’t follow rules blindly. 
    - #[[E: If you give yourself over to honesty in your practice, it will permeate your life]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - You can’t straighten up during writing and then hunch back down when you let go of the pen. Writing can teach us the dignity of speaking the truth, and it spreads out from the page into all of our life, and it should. Otherwise, there is too much of a schism between who we are as writers and how we live our daily lives. That is the challenge: to let writing teach us about life and life about writing. Let it flow back and forth. 
    - #[[E: You can’t depend on your writing going smoothly day after day. It won’t be that way]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - No matter how big the resistance, there is one day, there is the next day, and the writing work ahead. You can’t depend on its going smoothly day after day. It won’t be that way. You might have one day that is superb, productive, and the next time you write, you are ready to sign up on a ship headed for Saudi Arabia. There are no guarantees. You might think you have finally created a rhythm with three days running, and the next day the needle scratches the record and you squeak through it, teeth on edge. 
        - See the big picture. You are committed to writing or finding out about it. Continue under all circumstances. Don’t be rigid, though. If one day you have to take your kids to the dentist when it is your time to write, write in the dentist’s office or don’t write. Just stay in touch underneath with your commitment for this wild, silly, and wonderful writing practice. Always stay friendly toward it. It’s easier to come back to a good friend than an enemy. Dogen, a thirteenth-century Zen Buddhist master, said, “Every day is a good day.” That is the ultimate attitude we should have toward our writing, even if we have good and bad days. 
    - #[[E: You should listen to what people say. Then make your own decision]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Give a piece to one hundred people, you could possibly get one hundred different opinions—not absolutely different, but lots of variations. This is where the depth of the relationship with yourself is so important. You should listen to what people say. Take in what they say. (Don’t build a steel box around yourself.) Then make your own decision. It’s your poem and your voice. There are no clear-cut rules; it is a relationship with yourself. What is it you wanted to say? What do you want to expose about yourself? Being naked in a piece is a loss of control. This is good. We’re not in control anyway. People see you as you are. Sometimes we expose ourselves before we understand what we have done. That’s hard, but even more painful is to freeze up and expose nothing. Plus freezing up makes for terrible writing. 
    - #[[E: Don’t worry if you come back six months later and the piece you weren’t sure of turns out to be terrible]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - The good parts are already decomposing in your compost pile. Something good will come out. Have patience. 
    - #[[E: Be willing to look at your work honestly. If something works, it works. If it doesn’t, quit beating an old horse]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - Go on writing. Something else will come up. There’s enough bad writing in the world. Write one good line, you’ll be famous. Write a lot of lukewarm pieces, you’ll put people to sleep. 
    - #[[E: The great value of art is making the ordinary extraordinary. We awaken ourselves to the life we are living]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - When I reread my notebooks it never fails to remind me that I have a life, that I felt and thought and saw. It is very reaffirming, because sometimes writing seems useless and a twaste of time. Suddenly you are sitting in your chair fascinated by your own mundane life.  
    - #[[E: It’s pretty nice to be talented. If you are, enjoy, but it won’t take you that far. Work takes you a lot further]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
    - #[[E: Writing can be the deepest Zen practice]] #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - When I’m sitting, the object is to let go of thoughts and anchor my mind with my breath in the present moment. But, of course, it’s not so easy. When you sit a lot, you see that those thoughts are sticky and they keep coming back. In writing practice, you grab these thoughts and write them down, and by writing them down, you go on to the next one and you keep moving through them. You are anchoring your mind with your pen. Your thoughts become a quick stream you’re sitting in. So they’re not quite as sticky. In a sense, writing practice is a more expedient way of settling into a quiet place. I get to run through the thoughts and then let them go; whereas when I sit, there’s no place to spit them out and they take a long time to digest. They just hang around, roll around in the mouth of my mind. So it’s a different process. It’s a parallel process.  
    - #[[E: The topic for a book has to come from a deep place, like a longing that comes from the bottom of the well]]. #Evergreens  #[[Creative writing]] #[[Writing Down the Bones]]
        - For instance, my body is preparing to write a book that I probably will start soon, but it’s been years in the making. I wasn’t aware of it, but I have been living it. When it dawned on me that I wanted to write about it, for six months it composted in my belly, and I know that soon I’ll start it. I’ll sit down and say, “Go,” but you have to make sure that a book comes from a deep passion or even obsession. Because a book takes a long time to write, and you can’t burn out after you’ve written only ten pages. And it’s not good to start a book and then quit, because you’ll build up a pattern. I know many people who start books and never finish them. So it’s good to sit with it for a while and let it burn deep. Do a lot of writing practice around it. Make sure you really care enough. Because I’ll tell you, when you start writing a book, you go under for a long time. 
