- Author:: [[Darryl Bailey]]
- Recommended By:: 
- Tags:: #Books #Readit #Evergreens
- ### Highlights 
    - #[[E: Freedom arises when the complicated stories fall away]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - The simple, automatic happening of existence makes itself obvious
        - Not only was there no thinking, there was also no seeing, no hearing, no touching, no tasting, and no smelling. Those interpretations of life are not true. There is literally no way of saying what anything actually is. 
    - #[[E: There isn’t any way of saying what anything actually is and I’m not making anything happen. No one is]].  #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Everything is merely an unexplainable, unformed occurrence, moving in accordance with its unexplainable urges]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: All of my thoughts and behaviour are simply a spontaneous arising]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - I don’t create my urge to act in any particular way. And I don’t create my abilities to follow through on that urge. All of it is the happening of something that can’t be explained. 
    - #[[E: Thinking isn’t the problem. The problem is believing the stories that thinking present]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - So, the belief that any thinking was true, ended. And the belief that the happening of life could be understood, or was being influenced, came to an end. Thinking could come and go, and it was always merely an unexplainable happening.   There was simply the feeling of everything happening in the moment, and all of it was happening automatically.   It was an unexplainable liveliness moving in accordance with its unexplainable urges. The totally free movement of something that can’t be explained. 
    - #[[E: Things happen the only way they can happen]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - If you ask me what’s causing everything to happen the way it happens, including me, I would say I don’t know: it just happens.   But that’s total freedom. There’s just this immediate happening, expressing itself freely, and that includes everything that I seem to be.   
    - #[[E: There are still difficulties in life, but there’s no longer a need to understand any of it, or direct it]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - There is no understanding and there never is anyone separate from it, who’s directing it.   There’s no feeling that any of it is incorrect; it’s always the natural flow of something that can’t be understood. There’s no feeling of ever making a mistake in my behaviour, because I can only be what I am in any moment. I’m not creating, or influencing, any of it.   There’s no feeling that anyone else is doing something wrong, because they also don’t create themselves, or their behaviour.   But that doesn’t mean I don’t try to make life more pleasant, or that I don’t try to help those in need, it’s just that the urges to do those things, and the actions that come from those urges, aren’t my creation. Nothing of what I am, or how I behave, is my creation. 
    - #[[E: In any moment, I am what I am; nothing else is possible]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - Life was no longer complex and confusing; it was always simply an unexplainable happening, moving and shifting on its own.   It wasn’t filled with psychological and emotional conflict. It was always simply unexplainable and happening the only way it could happen. All the beliefs that it should be happening in some other way no longer made any sense. It’s just whatever it is in any moment. It can’t be anything else.   The idea, that I should be something else no longer made sense. In any moment, I am what I am; nothing else is possible. I wasn’t a failure any more than an ostrich was a failure or a rock. 
        - In any moment, we are what we are, and that’s always automatically moving to something else. It’s the movement of something that can’t be explained. 
    - #[[E: Focus on the question "What is there when there is no thinking?"]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - I wondered why attention wouldn’t just stay with the full happening of the moment. So, in my free time, I began to notice when the focus went on thoughts and, any time that it did, I would think to myself, “false story”, and also think the question, “What is there when there is no thinking?”   Every time I thought that question, what remained was the happening of the moment, without any false interpretation.   After a while, whenever the focus went on thoughts, the question became “What actually is?” Again, when I would think that thought, all that remained was the immediate happening of the moment, without any thought trying to interpret it.   The thoughts always came back, as a natural movement of the moment, but the focus wasn’t primarily on them. The focus was on the unexplainable, unformed happening that everything actually is. 
        - One day, the attention stopped returning to thought as the main focus, and remained with the entire happening of the moment. After that, even when the focus had to go on thought, there was no urge for it to remain there when it wasn’t needed.   I became less interested in thought. Whenever it was needed, I could use it, but when it wasn’t needed, it just rattled around in the background and I had no interest in it. It was much more interesting to simply feel the full happening of the moment, occurring on its own.   I could even play with thought, for entertainment, but it never again presented itself as an explanation of existence. Life was always an unexplainable happening presenting itself, and the focus was primarily on that. 
        - My frustrations with other people began to fade. They weren’t creating who they were, or how they were behaving, so I stopped thinking that they should be anything other than who they were. 
    - #[[E: The usual stories of birth and death do not make any sense]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - In actual experience, there is only an unexplainable, vibrant occurrence.
    - #[[E: Stories of enlightenment usually carry a sense of specialness that is very misleading]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - None of this is about meditation and enlightenment
        - Once it was clear that I could never truly explain existence, and wasn’t causing any of it, not only did I lose my ability to define myself, in any true way, but when I was using words, I lost the ability to define myself as anything special. I’m a simple expression of nature, like everything else.   I’m doing what every expression of existence is doing, simply being the only expression I can be. Nothing more and nothing less. I’m perfectly fine as the ordinary happening that I am.   Stories of enlightenment usually carry a sense of specialness that is very misleading. None of this is about meditation and enlightenment. It’s about something that can’t be understood and isn’t being accomplished by anyone.   Every apparent thing is compelled to be what it is. A rock is compelled to be a rock. A squirrel is compelled to be a squirrel. 
    - #[[E: Any human being is compelled to be what they are in any moment. There isn’t anything wrong with it]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - My life was still presenting itself as usual, all of my needs, interests, and concerns, and all my responses to those motivating factors, were still occurring. My so-called thoughts were still arising, and they were there whenever I needed them. My sense of caring for family members and friends, and my sense of responsibility within society, was still presenting itself. But it was more obvious than ever that I wasn’t creating any of it. 
    - #[[E: I do not create my sensibilities]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - It felt, more and more, that life was a totally mysterious happening simply occurring on its own.   Even the process of making a decision was a process that occurred on its own; I didn’t make it happen.   There were natural worries that came up in the course of any day, but I wasn’t creating them. And all the appropriate responses to those worries would also come up, automatically.   I still cared about things, sometimes passionately, without really caring how any of it would ultimately play out, because none of it was my doing, not even my own behaviour.   I would always act in a way that seemed appropriate, the way that made most sense to me, but I wasn’t creating my sensibilities.   There were moments when the worries and responses seemed to be confused, like a big storm. But if I just waited, they all settled down and the important aspects automatically became clear. 
    - #[[E: The situation of someone telling other people what they should be, is perversely ignorant of life itself]] #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - The various philosophies and psychologies always presented an idea of what a healthy human being, or an awakened human being, is, and stated that we had to do various practices or therapies, to turn ourselves into that kind of human being. Instead of being a normal human being, there was the belief that we had to become a special human, an ideal human being.   Basically, everyone was telling everyone else what they were supposed to be.   Even the most loving spiritual teachers gave the impression that it wasn’t okay for you to be what you were. They gave the impression that they had some secret knowledge of what you were supposed to be, and they would help you get to it.   From my actual experience of existence, all of those ideas and standards became ridiculous.   Existence expresses itself in endless variety. No two snowflakes are ever identical. No two things anywhere are identical, so the idea that two people should be the same, or find contentment in the same way, or even have the same sense of existence, was absurd.   Each of us is unique. We have to be the differently unique expression that we are, and no other person knows what we’re supposed to be, or what we’re supposed to be doing in life. There’s simply the movement of existence, expressing each apparent person in a different way.   The situation of someone telling other people what they should be, is perversely ignorant of life itself. It makes no sense. For one person to say that there’s something wrong with the rest of us, is like someone stepping out under the night sky and saying that the stars aren’t arranged properly. It’s moronic.   
    - #[[E: We don’t exist as anything other than the movement of nature]].  #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy 
        - For each apparent person to find his or her fulfilment, they will have to feel out what is important for them, in their unique situation.   We each get our different set of needs, interests, and concerns, along with a different set of abilities and lack of abilities. There are some things that seem to be common to all of us, but even those are somewhat different for each one of us.   There is the occasional philosophy or therapy that acknowledges this wide variety in life’s expression, but most are trying to force a particular standard on everyone. They want us to conform to one personality, one way of behaving, or one way of looking at life.   They have their ideas of what a perfect human being is, but that standard is impossible for everyone to meet, because we’re all different.   People have their various gurus and messiahs who they feel are the model for all of humankind, the perfect person. But, as U.G. used to say, messiahs are called messiahs because they leave a big mess behind them, wherever they go.   Most therapies, that seem to help in many ways, are very judgmental. 
    - #[[E: Our contentment lies in being whatever we are, focusing on whatever is important to us, in our unique situation]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Any time the focus goes on thought, there’s less focus on what actually is]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: The idea of a self that is separate from existence, that is understanding existence and influencing its movement, is a fantasy]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - That self has never existed. There has never been any experience of that. 
    - #[[E: The stories that say we’re a person who understands life and directs life are not true]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - If we believe those stories are true, then there is an endless obsession with them, a constant focus on them. However, if we see that those stories can never be true, then everything is simply a mysterious happening. Even the stories are simply a mysterious happening. We don’t really know what they are. 
    - #[[E:The entire process that you are is happening. You are doing nothing to make yourself happen the way that you happen]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Thinking can help us build a bridge, or make a meal, but it can’t explain what anything really is]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: There’s no me that has to see anything more clearly. There is always only an unexplainable happening ]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
    - #[[E: Thought is an expression of life; it doesn’t direct life]]. #Evergreens [["What the...": A Conversation about Living]] #Philosophy
        - The mysterious occurrence of this moment expresses itself a certain way, and thoughts are simply a small portion of this expression. 
